Petitioner Marx filed suit, alleging that General Revenue Corporation (GRC) violated the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) by harassing and falsely threatening her in order to collect on a debt. The District Court ruled against Marx and awarded GRC costs pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure (FRCP) 54(d)(1), which gives district courts discretion to award costs to prevailing defendants "[u]nless a federal statute . . . provides otherwise." Marx sought to vacate the award, arguing that the court's discretion under Rule 54(d)(1) was displaced by 15 U. S. C. §1692k(a)(3), which provides, in pertinent part, that "[o]n a finding by the court that an action under this section was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award to the defendant attorney's fees reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs." The District Court rejected Marx's argument. The Tenth Circuit affirmed, in pertinent part, agreeing that costs are allowed under the Rule and concluding that nothing in the statute's text, history, or purpose indicates that it was meant to displace the Rule.Held: Section §1692k(a)(3) is not contrary to, and, thus, does not displace a district court's discretion to award costs under, Rule 54(d)(1). Pp. 4-16.     (a) Rule 54(d)(1) gives courts discretion to award costs to prevailing parties, but this discretion can be displaced by a federal statute or FRCP that "provides otherwise," i.e., is "contrary" to Rule 54(d)(1). Contrary to the argument of Marx and the United States, as amicus, language of the original 1937 version of the Rule does not suggest that any "express provision" for costs should displace Rule 54(d)(1), regardless of whether it is contrary to the Rule. Pp. 4-7.     (b) Section 1692k(a)(3)'s language and context demonstrate that the provision is not contrary to Rule 54(d)(1). Pp. 7-15.          (1) GRC argues that since §1692k(a)(3) does not address whether costs may be awarded in an FDCPA case brought in good faith, it does not set forth a standard that is contrary to the Rule and therefore does not displace the presumption that a court has discretion to award costs. Marx and the United States concede that the statute does not expressly limit a court's discretion to award costs under the Rule, but argue that it does so by negative implication. They claim that unless §1692k(a)(3) sets forth the exclusive basis on which to award costs, the phrase "and costs" would be superfluous with Rule 54(d)(1). And the United States also argues that §1692k(a)(3)'s more specific cost statute displaces Rule 54(d)(1)'s more general rule. Pp. 7-9.          (2) The argument of Marx and the United States depends critically on whether §1692k(a)(3)'s allowance of costs creates a negative implication that costs are unavailable in any other circumstances. The expressio unius canon that they invoke does not apply "unless it is fair to suppose that Congress considered the unnamed possibility and meant to say no to it," Barnhart v. Peabody Coal Co., 537 U. S. 149, 168, and can be overcome by "contrary indications that adopting a particular rule or statute was probably not meant to signal any exclusion," United States v. Vonn, 535 U. S. 55, 65. Here, context indicates that Congress did not intend §1692k(a)(3) to foreclose courts from awarding costs under the Rule. First, under the American Rule, each litigant generally pays his own attorney's fees, but the Court has long recognized that federal courts have inherent power to award attorney's fees in a narrow set of circumstances, e.g., when a party brings an action in bad faith. The statute is thus best read as codifying a court's pre-existing authority to award both attorney's fees and costs. Next, §1692k(a)(3)'s second sentence must be understood in light of its first, which provides an award of attorney's fees and costs, but to prevailing plaintiffs. By adding "and costs" to the second sentence, Congress foreclosed the argument that defendants can only recover attorney's fees when plaintiffs bring an action in bad faith and removed any doubt that defendants may recover costs as well as attorney's fees in such cases. Finally, §1692k(a)(3)'s language sharply contrasts with that of other statutes in which Congress has placed conditions on awarding costs to prevailing defendants. See, e.g., 28 U. S. C. §1928. Pp. 9-12.          (3) Even assuming that their surplusage argument is correct, the canon against surplusage is not absolute. First, the canon "assists only where a competing interpretation gives effect to every clause and word of a statute." Microsoft Corp. v. i4i Ltd. Partnership, 564 U. S. ___, ___. Here, no interpretation of §1692k(a)(3) gives effect to every word. Second, redundancy is not unusual in statutes addressing costs. See, e.g., 12 U. S. C. §2607(d)(5). Finally, the canon is strongest when an interpretation would render superfluous another part of the same statutory scheme. Because §1692k(a)(3) is not part of Rule 54(d)(1), the force of this canon is diminished. Pp. 13-14.          (4) Lastly, contrary to the United States' claim that specific cost-shifting standards displace general ones, the context of the statute indicates that Congress was simply confirming the background presumption that courts may award to defendants attorney's fees and costs when the plaintiff brings an action in bad faith. Because Marx did not bring this suit in bad faith, the specific provision is not applicable. Pp. 14-15.668 F. 3d 1174, affirmed.     Thomas, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Scalia, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, and Alito, JJ., joined. Sotomayor, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Kagan, J., joined.Opinion of the Court?568 U. S. ____ (2013)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 11-1175OLIVEA MARX, PETITIONER v. GENERAL REVENUE CORPORATIONon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the tenth circuit[February 26, 2013]     Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court.     Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d)(1) gives district courts discretion to award costs to prevailing defendants "[u]nless a federal statute . . . provides otherwise." The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA), 91 Stat. 881, 15 U. S. C. §1692k(a)(3), provides that "[o]n a finding by the court that an action under this section was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award to the defendant attorney's fees reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs." This case presents the question whether §1692k(a)(3) "provides otherwise" than Rule 54(d)(1). We conclude that §1692k(a)(3) does not "provid[e] otherwise," and thus a district court may award costs to prevailing defendants in FDCPA cases without finding that the plaintiff brought the case in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment.I     Petitioner Olivea Marx defaulted on a student loan guaranteed by EdFund, a division of the California Student Aid Commission. In September 2008, EdFund hired respondent General Revenue Corporation (GRC) to collect the debt. One month later, Marx filed an FDCPA enforcement action against GRC.1 Marx alleged that GRC had violated the FDCPA by harassing her with phone calls several times a day and falsely threatening to garnish up to 50% of her wages and to take the money she owed directly from her bank account. Shortly after the complaint was filed, GRC made an offer of judgment under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 68 to pay Marx $1,500, plus reasonable attorney's fees and costs, to settle any claims she had against it. Marx did not respond to the offer. She subsequently amended her complaint to add a claim that GRC unlawfully sent a fax to her workplace that requested information about her employment status.     Following a 1-day bench trial, the District Court found that Marx had failed to prove any violation of the FDCPA. As the prevailing party, GRC submitted a bill of costs seeking $7,779.16 in witness fees, witness travel expenses, and deposition transcript fees. The court disallowed several items of costs and, pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d)(1), ordered Marx to pay GRC $4,543.03. Marx filed a motion to vacate the award of costs, arguing that the court lacked authority to award costs under Rules 54(d)(1) and 68(d) because 15 U. S. C. §1692k(a)(3) sets forth the exclusive basis for awarding costs in FDCPA cases.2 Section 1692k(a)(3) provides, in relevant part: "On a finding by the court that an action under this section was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award to the defendant attorney's fees reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs." Marx argued that because the court had not found that she brought the case in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, GRC was not entitled to costs. The District Court rejected Marx's argument, concluding that §1692k(a)(3) does not displace a court's discretion to award costs under Rule 54(d)(1) and that costs should also be awarded under Rule 68(d).     The Tenth Circuit affirmed but agreed only with part of the District Court's reasoning. In particular, the court disagreed that costs were allowed under Rule 68(d). 668 F. 3d 1174, 1182 (2011). It explained that "Rule 68 applies only where the district court enters judgment in favor of a plaintiff" for less than the amount of the settlement offer and not where the plaintiff loses outright. Ibid. (citing Delta Air Lines, Inc. v. August, 450 U. S. 346, 352 (1981)). Because the District Court had not entered judgment in favor of Marx, the court concluded that costs were not allowed under Rule 68(d). 668 F. 3d, at 1182. Nevertheless, the court found that costs were allowed under Rule 54(d)(1), which grants district courts discretion to award costs to prevailing parties unless a federal statute or the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure provide otherwise. Id., at 1178, 1182. After describing the "venerable" presumption that prevailing parties are entitled to costs, id., at 1179, the court concluded that nothing in the text, history, or purpose of §1692k(a)(3) indicated that it was meant to displace Rule 54(d)(1), id., at 1178-1182. Judge Lucero dissented, arguing that "[t]he only sensible reading of [§1692k(a)(3)] is that the district court may only award costs to a defendant" upon finding that the action was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment and that to read it otherwise rendered the phrase "and costs" superfluous. Id., at 1187 (emphasis in original).     We granted certiorari, 566 U. S. ___ (2012), to resolve a conflict among the Circuits regarding whether a prevailing defendant in an FDCPA case may be awarded costs where the lawsuit was not brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment. Compare 668 F. 3d, at 1182 (case below), with Rouse v. Law Offices of Rory Clark, 603 F. 3d 699, 701 (CA9 2010). We now affirm the judgment of the Tenth Circuit.II     As in all statutory construction cases, we " 'assum[e] that the ordinary meaning of [the statutory] language accurately expresses the legislative purpose.' " Hardt v. Reliance Standard Life Ins. Co., 560 U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (slip op., at 8) (quoting Gross v. FBL Financial Services, Inc., 557 U. S. 167, 175 (2009) (alteration in original)). In this case, we must construe both Rule 54(d)(1) and §1692k(a)(3) and assess the relationship between them.A     Rule 54(d)(1) is straightforward. It provides, in relevant part: "Unless a federal statute, these rules, or a court order provides otherwise, costs--other than attorney's fees--should be allowed to the prevailing party."     As the Tenth Circuit correctly recognized, Rule 54(d)(1) codifies a venerable presumption that prevailing parties are entitled to costs.3 Notwithstanding this presumption, the word "should" makes clear that the decision whether to award costs ultimately lies within the sound discretion of the district court. See Taniguchi v. Kan Pacific Saipan, Ltd., 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 4) ("Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d) gives courts the discretion to award costs to prevailing parties"). Rule 54(d)(1) also makes clear, however, that this discretion can be displaced by a federal statute or a Federal Rule of Civil Procedure that "provides otherwise."     A statute "provides otherwise" than Rule 54(d)(1) if it is "contrary" to the Rule. See 10 J. Moore, Moore's Federal Practice §54.101[1][c], p. 54-159 (3d ed. 2012) (hereinafter 10 Moore's). Because the Rule grants district courts discretion to award costs, a statute is contrary to the Rule if it limits that discretion. A statute may limit a court's discretion in several ways, and it need not expressly state that it is displacing Rule 54(d)(1) to do so. For instance, a statute providing that "plaintiffs shall not be liable for costs" is contrary to Rule 54(d)(1) because it precludes a court from awarding costs to prevailing defendants. See, e.g., 7 U. S. C. §18(d)(1) ("The petitioner shall not be liable for costs in the district court"). Similarly, a statute providing that plaintiffs may recover costs only under certain conditions is contrary to Rule 54(d) because it precludes a court from awarding costs to prevailing plaintiffs when those conditions have not been satisfied. See, e.g., 28 U. S. C. §1928 ("[N]o costs shall be included in such judgment, unless the proper disclaimer has been filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office").     Importantly, not all statutes that provide for costs are contrary to Rule 54(d)(1). A statute providing that "the court may award costs to the prevailing party," for example, is not contrary to the Rule because it does not limit a court's discretion. See 10 Moore's §54.101[1][c], at 54-159 ("A number of statutes state simply that the court may award costs in its discretion. Such a provision is not contrary to Rule 54(d)(1) and does not displace the court's discretion under the Rule").     Marx and the United States as amicus curiae suggest that any statute that specifically provides for costs displaces Rule 54(d)(1), regardless of whether it is contrary to the Rule. Brief for Petitioner 17; Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 11-12 (hereinafter Brief for United States). The United States relies on the original 1937 version of Rule 54(d)(1), which provided, " 'Except when express provision therefor is made either in a statute of the United States or in these rules, costs shall be allowed as of course to the prevailing party unless the court otherwise directs.' " Id., at 12 (quoting Rule). Though the Rules Committee updated the language of Rule 54(d)(1) in 2007, the change was "stylistic only." Advisory Committee's Notes, 28 U. S. C. App., p. 734 (2006 ed., Supp. V). Accordingly, the United States asserts that any "express provision" for costs should displace Rule 54(d)(1).     We are not persuaded, however, that the original version of Rule 54(d) should be interpreted as Marx and the United States suggest. The original language was meant to ensure that Rule 54(d) did not displace existing costs provisions that were contrary to the Rule. Under the prior language, statutes that simply permitted a court to award costs did not displace the Rule. See 6 J. Moore, Moore's Federal Practice §54.71[1], p. 54-304 (2d ed. 1996) ("[W]hen permissive language is used [in a statute regarding costs] the district court may, pursuant to Rule 54(d), exercise a sound discretion relative to the allowance of costs"). Rather, statutes had to set forth a standard for awarding costs that was different from Rule 54(d)(1) in order to displace the Rule. See Friedman v. Ganassi, 853 F. 2d 207, 210 (CA3 1988) (holding that 15 U. S. C. §77k(e) is not an "express provision" under Rule 54(d) because it does not provide an "alternative standard" for awarding taxable costs). The original version of Rule 54(d) is consistent with our conclusion that a statute must be contrary to Rule 54(d)(1) in order to displace it.4B     We now turn to whether §1692k(a)(3) is contrary to Rule 54(d)(1). The language of §1692k(a)(3) and the context surrounding it persuade us that it is not.1     The second sentence of §1692k(a)(3) provides: "On a finding by the court that an action under this section was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award to the defendant attorney's fees reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs."5     GRC contends that the statute does not address whether costs may be awarded in this case--where the plaintiff brought the case in good faith--and thus it does not set forth a standard for awarding costs that is contrary to Rule 54(d)(1). In its view, Congress intended §1692k(a)(3) to deter plaintiffs from bringing nuisance lawsuits. It, therefore, expressly provided that when plaintiffs bring an action in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award attorney's fees and costs to the defendant. The statute does address this type of case--i.e., cases in which the plaintiff brings the action in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment. But it is silent where bad faith and purpose of harassment are absent, and silence does not displace the background rule that a court has discretion to award costs.     Marx and the United States take the contrary view. They concede that the language does not expressly limit a court's discretion to award costs under Rule 54(d)(1), Brief for Petitioner 10; Brief for United States 19, but argue that it does so by negative implication. Invoking the expressio unius canon of statutory construction, they contend that by specifying that a court may award attorney's fees and costs when an action is brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, Congress intended to preclude a court from awarding fees and costs when bad faith and purpose of harassment are absent. They further argue that unless §1692k(a)(3) sets forth the exclusive basis on which a court may award costs, the phrase "and costs" would be superfluous. According to this argument, Congress would have had no reason to specify that a court may award costs when a plaintiff brings an action in bad faith if it could have nevertheless awarded costs under Rule 54(d)(1). Finally, the United States argues that §1692k(a)(3) is a more specific cost statute that displaces Rule 54(d)(1)'s more general rule.     The context surrounding §1692k(a)(3) persuades us that GRC's interpretation is correct.2     The argument of Marx and the United States depends critically on whether §1692k(a)(3)'s allowance of costs creates a negative implication that costs are unavailable in any other circumstances. The force of any negative implication, however, depends on context. We have long held that the expressio unius canon does not apply "unless it is fair to suppose that Congress considered the unnamed possibility and meant to say no to it," Barnhart v. Peabody Coal Co., 537 U. S. 149, 168 (2003), and that the canon can be overcome by "contrary indications that adopting a particular rule or statute was probably not meant to signal any exclusion," United States v. Vonn, 535 U. S. 55, 65 (2002). In this case, context persuades us that Congress did not intend §1692k(a)(3) to foreclose courts from awarding costs under Rule 54(d)(1).     First, the background presumptions governing attorney's fees and costs are a highly relevant contextual feature. As already explained, under Rule 54(d)(1) a prevailing party is entitled to recover costs from the losing party unless a federal statute, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, or a court order "provides otherwise." The opposite presumption exists with respect to attorney's fees. Under the "bedrock principle known as the ' "American Rule," ' " "[e]ach litigant pays his own attorney's fees, win or lose, unless a statute or contract provides otherwise." Hardt, 560 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9) (quoting Ruckelshaus v. Sierra Club, 463 U. S. 680, 683 (1983)). Notwithstanding the American Rule, however, we have long recognized that federal courts have inherent power to award attorney's fees in a narrow set of circumstances, including when a party brings an action in bad faith. See Chambers v. NASCO, Inc., 501 U. S. 32, 45-46 (1991) (explaining that a court has inherent power to award attorney's fees to a party whose litigation efforts directly benefit others, to sanction the willful disobedience of a court order, and to sanction a party who has acted in bad faith, vexatiously, wantonly, or for oppressive reasons); Alyeska Pipeline Service Co. v. Wilderness Society, 421 U. S. 240, 257-259 (1975) (same).     It is undisputed that §1692k(a)(3) leaves the background rules for attorney's fees intact. The statute provides that when the plaintiff brings an action in bad faith, the court may award attorney's fees to the defendant. But, as noted, a court has inherent power to award fees based on a litigant's bad faith even without §1692k(a)(3). See Chambers, supra, at 45-46. Because §1692k(a)(3) codifies the background rule for attorney's fees, it is dubious to infer congressional intent to override the background rule with respect to costs. The statute is best read as codifying a court's pre-existing authority to award both attorney's fees and costs.6     Next, the second sentence of §1692k(a)(3) must be understood in light of the sentence that precedes it.7 The first sentence of §1692k(a)(3) provides that defendants who violate the FDCPA are liable for the plaintiff's attorney's fees and costs. The second sentence of §1692k(a)(3) similarly provides that plaintiffs who bring an action in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment may be liable for the defendant's fees and costs.     If Congress had excluded "and costs" in the second sentence, plaintiffs might have argued that the expression of costs in the first sentence and the exclusion of costs in the second meant that defendants could only recover attorney's fees when plaintiffs bring an action in bad faith. By adding "and costs" to the second sentence, Congress foreclosed that argument, thereby removing any doubt that defendants may recover costs as well as attorney's fees when plaintiffs bring suits in bad faith. See Ali v. Federal Bureau of Prisons, 552 U. S. 214, 226 (2008) (explaining that a phrase is not superfluous if used to "remove . . . doubt" about an issue); Fort Stewart Schools v. FLRA, 495 U. S. 641, 646 (1990) (explaining that "technically unnecessary" examples may have been "inserted out of an abundance of caution"). The fact that there might have been a negative implication that costs are precluded, depending on whether Congress included or excluded the phrase "and costs," weighs against giving effect to any implied limitation.     Finally, the language in §1692k(a)(3) sharply contrasts with other statutes in which Congress has placed conditions on awarding costs to prevailing defendants. See, e.g., 28 U. S. C. §1928 ("[N]o costs shall be included in such judgment, unless the proper disclaimer has been filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office prior to the commencement of the action" (emphasis added)); 42 U. S. C. §1988(b) ("[I]n any action brought against a judicial officer . . . such officer shall not be held liable for any costs . . . unless such action was clearly in excess of such officer's jurisdiction" (emphasis added)).     Although Congress need not use explicit language to limit a court's discretion under Rule 54(d)(1), its use of explicit language in other statutes cautions against inferring a limitation in §1692k(a)(3). These statutes confirm that Congress knows how to limit a court's discretion under Rule 54(d)(1) when it so desires. See Small v. United States, 544 U. S. 385, 398 (2005) (Thomas, J., dissenting) (explaining that "Congress' explicit use of [language] in other provisions shows that it specifies such restrictions when it wants to do so"). Had Congress intended the second sentence of §1692k(a)(3) to displace Rule 54(d)(1), it could have easily done so by using the word "only" before setting forth the condition "[o]n a finding by the court that an action . . . was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment . . . ."83     As the above discussion suggests, we also are not persuaded by Marx's objection that our interpretation renders the phrase "and costs" superfluous. As noted, supra, at 11, the phrase "and costs" would not be superfluous if Congress included it to remove doubt that defendants may recover costs when plaintiffs bring suits in bad faith. But even assuming that our interpretation renders the phrase "and costs" superfluous, that would not alter our conclusion. The canon against surplusage is not an absolute rule, see Arlington Central School Dist. Bd. of Ed. v. Murphy, 548 U. S. 291, 299, n. 1 (2006) ("While it is generally presumed that statutes do not contain surplusage, instances of surplusage are not unknown"); Connecticut Nat. Bank v. Germain, 503 U. S. 249, 253 (1992) ("Redundancies across statutes are not unusual events in drafting . . . "), and it has considerably less force in this case.     First, the canon against surplusage "assists only where a competing interpretation gives effect to every clause and word of a statute." Microsoft Corp. v. i4i Ltd. Partnership, 564 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 12) (internal quotation marks omitted). But, in this case, no interpretation of §1692k(a)(3) gives effect to every word. Both Marx and the United States admit that a court has inherent power to award attorney's fees to a defendant when the plaintiff brings an action in bad faith. Because there was, consequently, no need for Congress to specify that courts have this power, §1692k(a)(3) is superfluous insofar as it addresses attorney's fees. In light of this redundancy, we are not overly concerned that the reference to costs may be redundant as well.     Second, redundancy is "hardly unusual" in statutes addressing costs. See id., at ___ (slip op., at 13). Numerous statutes overlap with Rule 54(d)(1). See, e.g., 12 U. S. C. §2607(d)(5) ("[T]he court may award to the prevailing party the court costs of the action"); §5565(b) (2006 ed., Supp. V) ("the [Consumer Financial Protection] Bureau . . . may recover its costs in connection with prosecuting such action if [it] . . . is the prevailing party in the action"); 15 U. S. C. §6104(d) (2006 ed.) ("The court . . . may award costs of suit and reasonable fees for attorneys and expert witnesses to the prevailing party"); §7706(f)(4) ("In the case of any successful action . . . the court, in its discretion, may award the costs of the action"); §7805(b)(3) ("[T]he court may award to the prevailing party costs"); §8131(2) (2006 ed., Supp. V) ("The court may also, in its discretion, award costs and attorneys fees to the prevailing party"); 29 U. S. C. §431(c) (2006 ed.) ("The court . . . may, in its discretion . . . allow a reasonable attorney's fee to be paid by the defendant, and costs of the action"); 42 U. S. C. §3612(p) ("[T]he court . . . in its discretion, may allow the prevailing party . . . a reasonable attorney's fee and costs"); §3613(c)(2) ("[T]he court, in its discretion, may allow the prevailing party . . . a reasonable attorney's fee and costs"); 47 U. S. C. §551(f)(2) ("[T]he court may award . . . other litigation costs reasonably incurred").     Finally, the canon against surplusage is strongest when an interpretation would render superfluous another part of the same statutory scheme. Cf. United States v. Jicarilla Apache Nation, 564 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 22) (" 'As our cases have noted in the past, we are hesitant to adopt an interpretation of a congressional enactment which renders superfluous another portion of that same law' " (quoting Mackey v. Lanier Collection Agency & Service, Inc., 486 U. S. 825, 837 (1988))). Because §1692k(a)(3) is not part of Rule 54(d)(1), the force of this canon is diminished.4     Lastly, the United States contends that §1692k(a)(3) "establishes explicit cost-shifting standards that displace Rule 54(d)(1)'s more general default standard." Brief for United States 17; see also EC Term of Years Trust v. United States, 550 U. S. 429, 433 (2007) (" '[A] precisely drawn, detailed statute pre-empts more general remedies' " (quoting Brown v. GSA, 425 U. S. 820, 834 (1976))). Were we to accept the argument that §1692k(a)(3) has a negative implication, this argument might be persuasive. But the context of §1692k(a)(3) indicates that Congress was simply confirming the background rule that courts may award to defendants attorney's fees and costs when the plaintiff brings an action in bad faith. The statute speaks to one type of case--the case of the bad-faith and harassing plaintiff. Because Marx did not bring this suit in bad faith, this case does not "fal[l] within the ambit of the more specific provision." Brief for United States 13; see also RadLAX Gateway Hotel, LLC v. Amalgamated Bank, 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 9) ("When the conduct at issue falls within the scope of both provisions, the specific presumptively governs . . ." (emphasis in original)).9 Accordingly, this canon is inapplicable.III     Because we conclude that the second sentence of §1692k(a)(3) is not contrary to Rule 54(d)(1), and, thus, does not displace a district court's discretion to award costs under the Rule, we need not address GRC's alternative argument that costs were required under Rule 68.     The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.It is so ordered.Sotomayor, J., dissenting?568 U. S. ____ (2013)No. 11-1175OLIVEA MARX, PETITIONER v. GENERAL REVENUE CORPORATIONon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the tenth circuit[February 26, 2013]     Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Kagan joins, dissenting.     Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d)(1) is a default standard that grants district courts discretion to award litigation costs to a prevailing party. This default, however, gives way when a federal statute includes a costs provision that "provides otherwise." The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA), 91 Stat. 874, 15 U. S. C. §1692 et seq., contains a costs provision, §1692k(a)(3), and it "provides otherwise." That is apparent from the statute's plain language, which limits a court's discretion to award costs to prevailing defendants to cases "brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment." In reaching the opposite conclusion, the Court ignores the plain meaning of both the FDCPA and Rule 54(d)(1) and renders the statutory language at issue in this case meaningless. I respectfully dissent.I     The majority correctly recognizes, see ante, at 4, the fundamental principle of statutory construction that we begin "with the language of the statute itself." United States v. Ron Pair Enterprises, Inc., 489 U. S. 235, 241 (1989); Ingalls Shipbuilding, Inc. v. Director, Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, 519 U. S. 248, 255 (1997); Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S. 470, 485 (1917). We presume that Congress "means in a statute what it says there," Connecticut Nat. Bank v. Germain, 503 U. S. 249, 254 (1992), and "where . . . the statute's language is plain, the sole function of the courts is to enforce it according to its terms." Ron Pair, 489 U. S., at 241 (internal quotation marks omitted). This basic tenet is the appropriate starting point for interpreting both Rule 54(d)(1) and §1692k(a)(3). After invoking this principle, however, the majority casts it aside entirely in interpreting the statute and the Rule.A     Rule 54(d)(1) states, as relevant here, that "[u]nless a federal statute . . . provides otherwise, costs--other than attorney's fees--should be allowed to the prevailing party." The first question is what it means for a statute to "provid[e] otherwise" than Rule 54(d)(1).     Because the phrase "provides otherwise" is not defined in the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, we look to its ordinary meaning. Asgrow Seed Co. v. Winterboer, 513 U. S. 179, 187 (1995). In common usage, to "provide otherwise" means to "make a . . . stipulation" that is "differen[t]." Webster's Third New International Dictionary 1598, 1827 (2002) (Webster's Third) (defining "provide" and "otherwise," respectively); see Random House Dictionary of the English Language 1372, 1556 (2d ed. 1987) (Random House) ("to arrange for or stipulate" "[i]n another manner"); 10 Oxford English Dictionary 984 (2d ed. 1989) (Oxford Dictionary); 12 id., at 713 ("to stipulate" "[i]n another way . . . ; in a different manner"). This reading of the plain text is confirmed by the original 1937 codification of the Rule, which made clear that any "express provision" relating to costs in a statute is sufficient to displace the default.1     Accordingly, to displace Rule 54(d)(1), a federal statute need only address costs in a way different from, but not necessarily inconsistent with, the default.2 The reason is straightforward. If Congress has enacted a provision with respect to costs in a statute, there is no longer any need for the default, so it gives way. This design of the Rule is sensible, because many statutes contain specific costs provisions. 10 Moore's Federal Practice §54.101[1][c], p. 54-160 (3d ed. 2012) (noting that such statutes "are far too numerous to list comprehensively"). Rule 54(d)(1) is therefore consistent with the canon of statutory interpretation that "a precisely drawn, detailed statute pre-empts more general remedies." Hinck v. United States, 550 U. S. 501, 506 (2007); Crawford Fitting Co. v. J. T. Gibbons, Inc., 482 U. S. 437, 445 (1987); United States v. Erika, Inc., 456 U. S. 201, 208 (1982).     While purporting to interpret the "ordinary meaning" of Rule 54(d)(1), ante, at 4, the majority immediately abandons the ordinary meaning. The majority concludes that a statute provides otherwise for purposes of Rule 54(d)(1) only if it is "contrary" to the default. Ante, at 5. But the majority does not cite even a single dictionary definition in support of that reading, despite the oft-cited principle that a definition widely reflected in dictionaries generally governs over other possible meanings.3 Lacking any dictionary support for its interpretation, the majority relies instead upon a treatise published nearly 60 years after the Rule's adoption. See ante, 6-7 (citing 6 J. Moore, Moore's Federal Practice, p. 54-304 (2d ed. 1996)).     "Otherwise" means "different." Webster's Third 1518; see supra, at 2-3. The majority's preferred term of art, "contrary," sets a higher bar; it signifies "the opposite," or "a proposition, fact, or condition incompatible with another." Webster's Third 495 (emphasis added). See also American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language 399 (5th ed. 2011) ("Opposed, as in character or purpose"); 3 Oxford Dictionary 844 ("Opposed in nature or tendency; diametrically different, extremely unlike"); Random House 442 ("[O]pposite in nature or character; diametrically or mutually opposed").     Indeed, the majority's reading does not square with the everyday meaning of "otherwise." Consider, for example, a medication labeled with the instruction, "take twice a day unless otherwise directed." If a doctor advises her patient to take the medicine "in the morning," the patient would understand her to mean that he should take the medicine once a day, each morning. Although the instruction to take the medication in the morning is not incompatible with taking it twice a day--it could be taken in the evening as well--an ordinary English speaker would interpret "otherwise" to mean that the doctor's more specific instructions entirely supersede what is printed on the bottle. Rule 54(d)(1) is just the same: Its default is supplanted whenever Congress provides more specific instructions, not only when they are diametrically opposed to it.B1     Thus, the straightforward question in this case is whether §1692k(a)(3) implements a "different" standard with respect to costs than Rule 54(d)(1), and so "provides otherwise." As relevant, §1692k(a)(3) states: "On a finding by the court that an action under this section was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award to the defendant attorney's fees reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs."     It is readily apparent that this provision is different from the default of Rule 54(d)(1). In §1692k(a)(3), Congress described with specificity a single circumstance in which costs may be awarded. Far from merely restating a district court's discretion to award costs, this provision imposes a prerequisite to the exercise of that discretion: a finding by the court that an action was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment.     Because the text is plain, there is no need to proceed any further. Even so, relevant canons of statutory interpretation lend added support to reading §1692k(a)(3) as having a negative implication. That reading accords with the expressio unius, exclusio alterius canon, which instructs that when Congress includes one possibility in a statute, it excludes another by implication. See Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Echazabal, 536 U. S. 73, 80-81 (2002). This rule reinforces what the text makes clear. By limiting a court's discretion to award costs to cases brought in bad faith or for the purpose of harassment, Congress foreclosed the award of costs in other circumstances.4     Petitioner's interpretation of the statute is also strongly favored by the rule that statutes should be read to avoid superfluity. Under this "most basic of interpretative canons, . . . ' "[a] statute should be constructed so that effect is given to all of its provisions, so that no part will be inoperative or superfluous, void or insignificant." ' " Corley v. United States, 556 U. S. 303, 314 (2009) (quoting Hibbs v. Winn, 542 U. S. 88, 101 (2004)). Respondent's reading, as it mostly acknowledges, renders the entire sentence meaningless because it reiterates powers that federal courts already possess with respect to both costs and attorney's fees. See Brief for Respondent 22-24.     The majority rejects this argument, citing the rule that this canon " 'assists only where a competing interpretation gives effect to every clause and word of a statute.' " Ante, at 13 (quoting Microsoft Corp. v. i4i Ltd. Partnership, 564 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 12)). In its view, neither of the available interpretations can eliminate superfluity because the attorney's fees provision is redundant under any reading. Ante, at 13. But the canon against superfluity surely counsels against an interpretation that renders the entire provision at issue superfluous when a competing interpretation would at least render part of the provision meaningful. Nor does the majority's observation that redundancy is " 'hardly unusual,' " ante, at 14, in provisions relating to costs make the canon inapplicable. While Congress sometimes drafts redundant language with respect to costs, Congress did not do so in §1692(a)(3).5 Instead, it drafted specific language that permits a court to award costs only on the satisfaction of a condition.     Interpreting §1692k(1)(3) as having a negative implication is consistent with our construction of another statute that includes similar language. In Cooper Industries, Inc. v. Aviall Services, Inc., 543 U. S. 157, 166 (2004) (opinion for the Court by Thomas, J.), we considered a provision in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U. S. C. §9613(f)(1) that provided: "[a]ny person may seek contribution . . . during . . . any civil action under section 9606 of this title" (emphasis added). We rejected the argument that the word "may" indicated that "during a civil action" was one but not the exclusive circumstance in which the right of contribution was available. 543 U. S., at 166. We instead adopted the natural reading of the text, holding that a party's ability to seek contribution was limited by the phrase "during any civil action" and that contribution was only available while a lawsuit is pending. Ibid. The same logic applies here, because §1692k(a)(3) imposes a closely analogous condition on a court's discretion to award costs.2      The first sentence of §1692k(a)(3) underscores that Congress implemented a different rule than Rule 54(d)(1). That sentence provides that a debt collector who violates the FDCPA is "liable to" a prevailing plaintiff for "the costs of the action, together with a reasonable attorney's fee as determined by the court." This sentence makes a losing defendant always liable for the "costs of the action," which is a clear departure from the Rule 54(d)(1) discretionary default. Cf. Taniguchi v. Kan Pacific Saipan, Ltd., 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 4). Because Congress deviated from Rule 54(d)(1) in the first sentence of §1692k(a)(3), the most reasonable reading is that the sentence that immediately follows, which states the rule for prevailing defendants, takes a similar path.     The majority believes that its reading of the costs provision follows from the first sentence as well, but for a different reason. Ante, at 11-12. It suggests that if Congress had not included costs in the second sentence, a plaintiff might have been able to argue that the inclusion of costs in the first sentence and the exclusion of costs in the second indicated that defendants could recover only fees when an action is brought in bad faith. The majority then speculates that Congress included costs in the second sentence to foreclose that argument.     The text of the previous sentence makes plain, however, that the second sentence departs from the Rule 54(d)(1) default, and the majority offers no evidence in support of its supposition that Congress intended a different meaning.6 Moreover, I see no basis for invoking potential confusion or indulging in speculation to explain away the words Congress chose. Ante, at 11-12. Some Members of the majority have expressed doubt about the relevance of legislative history, claiming that relying upon it is analogous to "entering a crowded cocktail party and looking . . . for one's friends." Conroy v. Aniskoff, 507 U. S. 511, 519 (1993) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment). But speculating whole cloth about congressional intent, as the majority does, is surely more problematic. The majority is saved the trouble of having to look for its friends at the party; it simply invites them.II     Reduced to its essence, the majority's analysis turns on reading §1692k(a)(3) in the context of what it calls the "venerable presumption" that prevailing parties are entitled to costs. See ante, at 4. Even if it were appropriate to consider a background presumption rather than reading the plain text at issue, the majority's characterization of the presumption is at best incomplete.     First, the Court's suggestion that the presumption regarding costs is a "venerable" one in American law is an overstatement. Ibid. It is true, as the majority points out, that prior to the federal rules, "prevailing parties were entitled to costs as of right in actions at law while courts had discretion to award costs in equity proceedings." Ante, at 4, n. 3; see Wright & Miller §2665, at 199. But the doctrine governing costs at law carved out an important exception for statutory provisions that set forth a different rule.7 Where there was such a statute, courts would simply apply it. In its assessment of the background principles underlying its approach, the majority glosses over the longstanding expectation that Congress often enacts different rules with respect to costs, and when it does, these rules govern.     Second, Rule 54(d)(1) embraces this long-recognized exception because it specifies that a statute can displace its default rule. To repeat, Rule 54(d)(1) merely enacts a default standard that applies unless, among other things, a statute or rule "provides otherwise." Here, for the reasons explained, Congress enacted exactly such a statute. That is clear from the text, because §1692k(a)(3) conditions the award of costs on the satisfaction of a condition, and because the previous sentence of the same provision breaks from the default.*??*??*     The plain text of Rule 54(d)(1) and §1692k(a)(3) dictates the result in this case. Accordingly, I would reverse the Tenth Circuit and hold that §1692k(a)(3) "provides otherwise" than Rule 54(d)(1), such that a district court cannot award costs to a prevailing defendant in an FDCPA action except upon a showing that the action was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment. I respectfully dissent.FOOTNOTESConsumer complaints about abuses of telephone technology--for example, computerized calls to private homes--prompted Congress to pass the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (TCPA or Act), 47 U. S. C. §227. Congress determined that federal legislation was needed because telemarketers, by operating interstate, were escaping state-law prohibitions on intrusive nuisance calls. The Act bans certain invasive telemarketing practices and directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to prescribe implementing regulations. It authorizes States to bring civil actions to enjoin prohibited practices and recover damages on their residents' behalf, 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(1) (Supp. 2011), and provides that jurisdiction over these state-initiated suits lies exclusively in the U. S. district courts, §227(g)(2). It also permits a private person to seek redress for violations of the Act or regulations "in an appropriate court of [a] State," "if [such an action is] otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of [that] State." 47 U. S. C. §§227(b)(3), (c)(5).          Petitioner Mims filed a damages action in Federal District Court, alleging that respondent Arrow, seeking to collect a debt, violated the TCPA by repeatedly using an automatic telephone dialing system or prerecorded or artificial voice to call Mims's cellular phone without his consent. Mims invoked the court's "federal question" jurisdiction, i.e., its authority to adjudicate claims "arising under the . . . laws . . . of the United States," 28 U. S. C. §1331. The District Court, affirmed by the Eleventh Circuit, dismissed Mims's complaint for want of subject-matter jurisdiction, concluding that the TCPA had vested jurisdiction over private actions exclusively in state courts.Held: The TCPA's permissive grant of jurisdiction to state courts does not deprive the U. S. district courts of federal-question jurisdiction over private TCPA suits. Pp. 7-18.     (a) Because federal law creates the right of action and provides the rules of decision, Mims's TCPA claim, in §1331's words, plainly "aris[es] under" the "laws . . . of the United States." Arrow agrees that this action arises under federal law, but urges that Congress vested exclusive adjudicatory authority over private TCPA actions in state courts. In cases "arising under" federal law, there is a presumption of concurrent state-court jurisdiction, rebuttable if "Congress affirmatively ousts the state courts of jurisdiction over a particular federal claim." Tafflin v. Levitt, 493 U. S. 455, 458-459. Arrow acknowledges the presumption, but maintains that §1331 creates no converse presumption in favor of federal-court jurisdiction. Instead, Arrow urges, the TCPA, a later, more specific statute, displaces §1331, an earlier, more general prescription.     Section 1331 is not swept away so easily. The principle that district courts possess federal-question jurisdiction under §1331 when federal law creates a private right of action and furnishes the substantive rules of decision endures unless Congress divests federal courts of their §1331 adjudicatory authority. See, e.g., Verizon Md. Inc. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of Md., 535 U. S. 635, 642. Accordingly, the District Court retains §1331 jurisdiction over Mims's complaint unless the TCPA, expressly or by fair implication, excludes federal-court adjudication. See id., at 644. Pp. 7-10.     (b) Arrow's arguments do not persuade this Court that Congress eliminated §1331 jurisdiction over private TCPA actions. Title 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3)'s language may be state-court oriented, but "the grant of jurisdiction to one court does not, of itself, imply that the jurisdiction is to be exclusive," United States v. Bank of New York & Trust Co., 296 U. S. 463, 479. Nothing in §227(b)(3)'s permissive language makes state-court jurisdiction exclusive, or otherwise purports to oust federal courts of their §1331 jurisdiction. The provision does not state that a private plaintiff may bring a TCPA action "only" or "exclusively" in state court. In contrast, 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(2) (Supp. 2011) vests "exclusive jurisdiction" over state-initiated TCPA suits in the federal courts. Section 227(g)(2)'s exclusivity prescription "reinforce[s] the conclusion that [47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3)'s] silence . . . leaves the jurisdictional grant of §1331 untouched. For where otherwise applicable jurisdiction was meant to be excluded, it was excluded expressly." Verizon Md., 535 U. S., at 644.     Arrow argues that Congress had no reason to provide for a private action "in an appropriate [state] court," §227(b)(3), if it did not mean to make the state forum exclusive, for state courts would have concurrent jurisdiction even if Congress had said nothing at all. But, as already noted, Congress had simultaneously made federal-court jurisdiction exclusive in TCPA enforcement actions brought by state authorities, see 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(2) (Supp. 2011), and may simply have wanted to avoid any argument that federal jurisdiction was also exclusive for private actions. Moreover, by providing that private actions may be brought in state court "if otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of [the] State," 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3), Congress arguably gave States leeway they would otherwise lack to decide whether to entertain TCPA claims.     Arrow further asserts that making state-court jurisdiction over §227(b)(3) claims exclusive serves Congress' objective of enabling States to control telemarketers whose interstate operations evaded state law. Even so, jurisdiction conferred by 28 U. S. C. §1331 should hold firm against "mere implication flowing from subsequent legislation." Colorado River Water Conservation Dist. v. United States, 424 U. S. 800, 808, 809, n. 15. Furthermore, had Congress sought only to fill a gap in the States' enforcement capabilities, it could have provided that out-of-state telemarketing calls directed into a State would be subject to the receiving State's laws. Instead, Congress enacted detailed, uniform, federal substantive prescriptions and provided for a regulatory regime administered by a federal agency.     Arrow's reliance on a statement by Senator Hollings, the TCPA's sponsor, is misplaced. The remarks nowhere mention federal-court jurisdiction or otherwise suggest that 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3) is intended to divest federal courts of authority over TCPA claims. Even if Hollings and other TCPA supporters expected private actions to proceed solely in state courts, their expectation would not control this Court's judgment on §1331's compass. Arrow's arguments that federal courts will be inundated by $500-per-violation TCPA claims or that defendants could use federal-court removal to force small-claims-court plaintiffs to abandon suit seem more imaginary than real. Pp. 10-18.421 Fed. Appx. 920, reversed and remanded.     Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Opinion of the Court?565 U. S. ____ (2012)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 10-1195MARCUS D. MIMS, PETITIONER v. ARROW FINANCIAL SERVICES, LLCon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit[January 18, 2012]     Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.     This case concerns enforcement, through private suits, of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (TCPA or Act), 47 U. S. C. §227. Voluminous consumer complaints about abuses of telephone technology--for example, computerized calls dispatched to private homes--prompted Congress to pass the TCPA. Congress determined that federal legislation was needed because telemarketers, by operating interstate, were escaping state-law prohibitions on intrusive nuisance calls. The Act bans certain practices invasive of privacy and directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC or Commission) to prescribe implementing regulations. It authorizes States to bring civil actions to enjoin prohibited practices and to recover damages on their residents' behalf. The Commission must be notified of such suits and may intervene in them. Jurisdiction over state-initiated TCPA suits, Congress provided, lies exclusively in the U. S. district courts. Congress also provided for civil actions by private parties seeking redress for violations of the TCPA or of the Commission's implementing regulations.     Petitioner Marcus D. Mims, complaining of multiple violations of the Act by respondent Arrow Financial Services, LLC (Arrow), a debt-collection agency, commenced an action for damages against Arrow in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. Mims invoked the court's "federal question" jurisdiction, i.e., its authority to adjudicate claims "arising under the . . . laws . . . of the United States," 28 U. S. C. §1331. The District Court, affirmed by the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, dismissed Mims's complaint for want of subject-matter jurisdiction. Both courts relied on Congress' specification, in the TCPA, that a private person may seek redress for violations of the Act (or of the Commission's regulations thereunder) "in an appropriate court of [a] State," "if [such an action is] otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of [that] State." 47 U. S. C. §§227(b)(3), (c)(5).     The question presented is whether Congress' provision for private actions to enforce the TCPA renders state courts the exclusive arbiters of such actions. We have long recognized that "[a] suit arises under the law that creates the cause of action." American Well Works Co. v. Layne & Bowler Co., 241 U. S. 257, 260 (1916). Beyond doubt, the TCPA is a federal law that both creates the claim Mims has brought and supplies the substantive rules that will govern the case. We find no convincing reason to read into the TCPA's permissive grant of jurisdiction to state courts any barrier to the U. S. district courts' exercise of the general federal-question jurisdiction they have possessed since 1875. See Act of Mar. 3, 1875, §1, 18 Stat. 470; 13D C. Wright, A. Miller, E. Cooper, & R. Freer, Federal Practice and Procedure §3561, p. 163 (3d ed. 2008) (hereinafter Wright & Miller). We hold, therefore, that federal and state courts have concurrent jurisdiction over private suits arising under the TCPA.IA     In enacting the TCPA, Congress made several findings relevant here. "Unrestricted telemarketing," Congress determined, "can be an intrusive invasion of privacy." TCPA, 105 Stat. 2394, note following 47 U. S. C. §227 (Congressional Findings) (internal quotation marks omitted). In particular, Congress reported, "[m]any consumers are outraged over the proliferation of intrusive, nuisance [telemarketing] calls to their homes." Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). "[A]utomated or prerecorded telephone calls" made to private residences, Congress found, were rightly regarded by recipients as "an invasion of privacy." Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). Although over half the States had enacted statutes restricting telemarketing, Congress believed that federal law was needed because "telemarketers [could] evade [state-law] prohibitions through interstate operations." Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). See also S. Rep. No. 102-178, p. 3 (1991) ("[B]ecause States do not have jurisdiction over interstate calls[,] [m]any States have expressed a desire for Federal legislation . . . .").1     Subject to exceptions not pertinent here, the TCPA principally outlaws four practices. First, the Act makes it unlawful to use an automatic telephone dialing system or an artificial or prerecorded voice message, without the prior express consent of the called party, to call any emergency telephone line, hospital patient, pager, cellular telephone, or other service for which the receiver is charged for the call. See 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(1)(A). Sec-ond, the TCPA forbids using artificial or prerecorded voice messages to call residential telephone lines without prior express consent. §227(b)(1)(B). Third, the Act proscribes sending unsolicited advertisements to fax machines. §227(b)(1)(C). Fourth, it bans using automatic telephone dialing systems to engage two or more of a business' telephone lines simultaneously. §227(b)(1)(D).2     The TCPA delegates authority to the FCC to ban artificial and prerecorded voice calls to businesses, §227(b)(2)(A), and to exempt particular types of calls from the law's requirements, §§227(b)(2)(B), (C). The Act also directs the FCC to prescribe regulations to protect the privacy of residential telephone subscribers, possibly through the creation of a national "do not call" system. §227(c).3     Congress provided complementary means of enforcing the Act. State Attorneys General may "bring a civil action on behalf of [State] residents," if the Attorney General "has reason to believe that any person has engaged . . . in a pattern or practice" of violating the TCPA or FCC regulations thereunder. 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(1) (Supp. 2011). "The district courts of the United States . . . have exclusive jurisdiction" over all TCPA actions brought by State Attorneys General. §227(g)(2). The Commission may intervene in such suits. §227(g)(3).4     Title 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3), captioned "Private right of action," provides:     "A person or entity may, if otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of a State, bring in an appropriate court of that State--     "(A) an action based on a violation of this subsection or the regulations prescribed under this subsection to enjoin such violation,     "(B) an action to recover for actual monetary loss from such a violation, or to receive $500 in damages for each such violation, whichever is greater, or     "(C) both such actions."If the court finds that the defendant willfully or knowingly violated this subsection or the regulations prescribed under this subsection, the court may, in its discretion, increase the amount of the award to an amount equal to not more than 3 times the amount available under subparagraph (B) of this paragraph."A similar provision authorizes a private right of action for a violation of the FCC's implementing regulations.5B     Mims, a Florida resident, alleged that Arrow, seeking to collect a debt, repeatedly used an automatic telephone dialing system or prerecorded or artificial voice to call Mims's cellular phone without his consent. Commencing suit in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida, Mims charged that Arrow "willfully or knowingly violated the TCPA." App. 14. He sought declaratory relief, a permanent injunction, and damages. Id., at 18-19.     The District Court held that it lacked subject-matter jurisdiction over Mims's TCPA claim. Under Eleventh Circuit precedent, the District Court explained, federal-question jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. §1331 was unavailable "because Congress vested jurisdiction over [private actions under] the TCPA exclusively in state courts." Civ. No. 09-22347 (SD Fla., Apr. 1, 2010), App. to Pet. for Cert. 4a-5a (citing Nicholson v. Hooters of Augusta, Inc., 136 F. 3d 1287 (CA11 1998)). Adhering to Circuit precedent, the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit affirmed. 421 Fed. Appx. 920, 921 (2011) (quoting Nicholson, 136 F. 3d, at 1287-1288 ("Congress granted state courts exclusive jurisdiction over private actions under the [TCPA].")).     We granted certiorari, 564 U. S. ___ (2011), to resolve a split among the Circuits as to whether Congress granted state courts exclusive jurisdiction over private actions brought under the TCPA. Compare Murphey v. Lanier, 204 F. 3d 911, 915 (CA9 2000) (U. S. district courts lack federal-question jurisdiction over private TCPA actions), ErieNet, Inc. v. Velocity Net, Inc., 156 F. 3d 513, 519 (CA3 1998) (same), Foxhall Realty Law Offices, Inc. v. Telecommunications Premium Servs., Ltd., 156 F. 3d 432, 434 (CA2 1998) (same), Nicholson, 136 F. 3d, at 1287-1288, Chair King, Inc. v. Houston Cellular Corp., 131 F. 3d 507, 514 (CA5 1997) (same), and International Science & Technology Inst. v. Inacom Communications, Inc., 106 F. 3d 1146, 1158 (CA4 1997) (same), with Charvat v. EchoStar Satellite, LLC, 630 F. 3d 459, 463-465 (CA6 2010) (U. S. district courts have federal-question jurisdiction over private TCPA actions), Brill v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc., 427 F. 3d 446, 447 (CA7 2005) (same), and ErieNet, 156 F. 3d, at 521 (Alito, J., dissenting) (same). We now hold that Congress did not deprive federal courts of federal-question jurisdiction over private TCPA suits.II     Federal courts, though "courts of limited jurisdiction," Kokkonen v. Guardian Life Ins. Co. of America, 511 U. S. 375, 377 (1994), in the main "have no more right to decline the exercise of jurisdiction which is given, then to usurp that which is not given." Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264 (1821). Congress granted federal courts general federal-question jurisdiction in 1875. See Act of Mar. 3, 1875, §1, 18 Stat. 470.6 As now codified, the law provides: "The district courts shall have original jurisdiction of all civil actions arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States." 28 U. S. C. §1331. The statute originally included an amount-in-controversy requirement, set at $500. See Act of Mar. 3, 1875, §1, 18 Stat. 470. Recognizing the responsibility of federal courts to decide claims, large or small, arising under federal law, Congress in 1980 eliminated the amount-in-controversy requirement in federal-question (but not diversity) cases. See Federal Question Jurisdictional Amendments Act of 1980, 94 Stat. 2369 (amending 28 U. S. C. §1331). See also H. R. Rep. No. 96-1461, p. 1 (1980).7 Apart from deletion of the amount-in-controversy requirement, the general federal-question provision has remained essentially unchanged since 1875. See 13D Wright & Miller 163.     Because federal law creates the right of action and provides the rules of decision, Mims's TCPA claim, in 28 U. S. C. §1331's words, plainly "aris[es] under" the "laws . . . of the United States." As already noted, supra, at 2, "[a] suit arises under the law that creates the cause of action." American Well Works, 241 U. S., at 260. Although courts have described this formulation as "more useful for inclusion than for . . . exclusion," Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Thompson, 478 U. S. 804, 809, n. 5 (1986) (quoting T. B. Harms Co. v. Eliscu, 339 F. 2d 823, 827 (CA2 1964)), there is no serious debate that a federally created claim for relief is generally a "sufficient condition for federal-question jurisdiction." Grable & Sons Metal Products, Inc. v. Darue Engineering & Mfg., 545 U. S. 308, 317 (2005).8     Arrow agrees that this action arises under federal law, see Tr. of Oral Arg. 27, but urges that Congress vested exclusive adjudicatory authority over private TCPA actions in state courts. In cases "arising under" federal law, we note, there is a "deeply rooted presumption in favor of concurrent state court jurisdiction," rebuttable if "Congress affirmatively ousts the state courts of jurisdiction over a particular federal claim." Tafflin v. Levitt, 493 U. S. 455, 458-459 (1990). E.g., 28 U. S. C. §1333 ("The district courts shall have original jurisdiction, exclusive of the courts of the States, of: (1) Any civil case of admiralty or maritime jurisdiction . . . ."). The presumption of concurrent state-court jurisdiction, we have recognized, can be overcome "by an explicit statutory directive, by unmistakable implication from legislative history, or by a clear incompatibility between state-court jurisdiction and federal interests." Gulf Offshore Co. v. Mobil Oil Corp., 453 U. S. 473, 478 (1981).     Arrow readily acknowledges the presumption of concurrent state-court jurisdiction, but maintains that 28 U. S. C. §1331 creates no converse presumption in favor of federal-court jurisdiction. Instead, Arrow urges, the TCPA, a later, more specific statute, displaces §1331, an earlier, more general prescription. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 28-29; Brief for Respondent 31.     Section 1331, our decisions indicate, is not swept away so easily. As stated earlier, see supra, at 8, when federal law creates a private right of action and furnishes the substantive rules of decision, the claim arises under federal law, and district courts possess federal-question jurisdiction under §1331.9 That principle endures unless Congress divests federal courts of their §1331 adjudicatory authority. See, e.g., Verizon Md. Inc. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of Md., 535 U. S. 635, 642 (2002) (Nothing in 47 U. S. C. §252(e)(6) "divest[s] the district courts of their authority under 28 U. S. C. §1331 to review the [state agency's] order for compliance with federal law."); K mart Corp. v. Cartier, Inc., 485 U. S. 176, 182-183 (1988) ("The District Court would be divested of [§1331] jurisdiction . . . if this action fell within one of several specific grants of exclusive jurisdiction to the Court of International Trade [under 28 U. S. C. §1581(a) or §1581(i)(3)].").     "[D]ivestment of district court jurisdiction" should be found no more readily than "divestmen[t] of state court jurisdiction," given "the longstanding and explicit grant of federal question jurisdiction in 28 U. S. C. §1331." ErieNet, 156 F. 3d, at 523 (Alito, J., dissenting); see Gonell, Note, Statutory Interpretation of Federal Jurisdictional Statutes: Jurisdiction of the Private Right of Action under the TCPA, 66 Ford. L. Rev. 1895, 1929-1930 (1998). Accordingly, the District Court retains §1331 jurisdiction over Mims's complaint unless the TCPA, expressly or by fair implication, excludes federal-court adjudication. See Verizon Md., 535 U. S., at 644; Gonell, supra, at 1929 (Jurisdiction over private TCPA actions "is proper under §1331 unless Congress enacted a partial repeal of §1331 in the TCPA.").III     Arrow's arguments do not persuade us that Congress has eliminated §1331 jurisdiction over private actions under the TCPA.     The language of the TCPA--"A person or entity may, if otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of a State, bring [an action] in an appropriate court of that State," 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3)--Arrow asserts, is uniquely state-court oriented. See Brief for Respondent 13. That may be, but "[i]t is a general rule that the grant of jurisdiction to one court does not, of itself, imply that the jurisdiction is to be exclusive." United States v. Bank of New York & Trust Co., 296 U. S. 463, 479 (1936).     Nothing in the permissive language of §227(b)(3) makes state-court jurisdiction exclusive, or otherwise purports to oust federal courts of their 28 U. S. C. §1331 jurisdiction over federal claims. See, e.g., Verizon Md., 535 U. S., at 643 ("[N]othing in 47 U. S. C. §252(e)(6) purports to strip [§1331] jurisdiction."). Cf. Yellow Freight System, Inc. v. Donnelly, 494 U. S. 820, 823 (1990) (Title VII's language--"[e]ach United States district court . . . shall have jurisdiction of actions brought under this subchapter," 42 U. S. C. §2000e-5(f)(3)--does not "ous[t] state courts of their presumptive jurisdiction." (internal quotation marks omitted)). Congress may indeed provide a track for a federal claim exclusive of §1331. See, e.g., 42 U. S. C. §405(h) ("No action . . . shall be brought under [§1331] to recover on any claim arising under [Title II of the Social Security Act]."); Weinberger v. Salfi, 422 U. S. 749, 756-757 (1975). Congress has done nothing of that sort here, however.     Title 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3) does not state that a private plaintiff may bring an action under the TCPA "only" in state court, or "exclusively" in state court. The absence of such a statement contrasts with the Act's instruction on suits instituted by State Attorneys General. As earlier noted, see supra, at 4, 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(2) (Supp. 2011) vests "exclusive jurisdiction over [such] actions" in "[t]he district courts of the United States."10 Section 227(g)(2)'s exclusivity prescription "reinforce[s] the conclusion that [47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3)'s] silence . . . leaves the jurisdictional grant of §1331 untouched. For where otherwise applicable jurisdiction was meant to be excluded, it was excluded expressly." Verizon Md., 535 U. S., at 644; see ErieNet, 156 F. 3d, at 522 (Alito, J., dissenting) ("[47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(2) (Supp. 2011)] reveals that, while drafting the TCPA, Congress knew full well how to grant exclusive jurisdiction with mandatory language. The most natural interpretation of Congress' failure to use similar language in [47 U. S. C. §]227(b)(3) is that Congress did not intend to grant exclusive jurisdiction in that section."); Brill, 427 F. 3d, at 451 ("[47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(2) (Supp. 2011)] is explicit about exclusivity, while [47 U. S. C.] §227(b)(3) is not; the natural inference is that the state forum mentioned in §227(b)(3) is optional rather than mandatory.").11     Arrow urges that Congress would have had no reason to provide for a private action "in an appropriate [state] court," §227(b)(3), if it did not mean to make the state forum exclusive. Had Congress said nothing at all about bringing private TCPA claims in state courts, Arrow observes, those courts would nevertheless have concurrent jurisdiction. See supra, at 9. True enough, but Congress had simultaneously provided for TCPA enforcement actions by state authorities, 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g) (Supp. 2011), and had made federal district courts exclusively competent in such cases, §227(g)(2). Congress may simply have wanted to avoid any argument that in private actions, as in actions brought by State Attorneys General, "federal jurisdiction is exclusive." Brill, 427 F. 3d, at 451 (emphasis deleted) (citing Yellow Freight, 494 U. S. 820 (holding, after 26 years of litigation, that claims under the Civil Rights Act of 1964 may be resolved in state as well as federal courts) and Tafflin, 493 U. S. 455 (holding, after 20 years of litigation, that claims under RICO may be resolved in state as well as federal courts)). Moreover, by providing that private actions may be brought in state court "if otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of [the] State," 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3), Congress arguably gave States leeway they would otherwise lack to "decide for [themselves] whether to entertain claims under the [TCPA]," Brill, 427 F. 3d, at 451. See Brief for Respondent 16 (Congress "le[ft] States free to decide what TCPA claims to allow.").12     Making state-court jurisdiction over §227(b)(3) claims exclusive, Arrow further asserts, "fits hand in glove with [Congress'] objective": enabling States to control telemarketers whose interstate operations evaded state law. Id., at 15. Even so, we have observed, jurisdiction conferred by 28 U. S. C. §1331 should hold firm against "mere implication flowing from subsequent legislation." Colorado River Water Conservation Dist. v. United States, 424 U. S. 800, 808, 809, n. 15 (1976) (quoting Rosencrans v. United States, 165 U. S. 257, 262 (1897)).     We are not persuaded, moreover, that Congress sought only to fill a gap in the States' enforcement capabilities. Had Congress so limited its sights, it could have passed a statute providing that out-of-state telemarketing calls directed into a State would be subject to the laws of the receiving State. Congress did not enact such a law. Instead, it enacted detailed, uniform, federal substantive prescriptions and provided for a regulatory regime administered by a federal agency. See 47 U. S. C. §227. TCPA liability thus depends on violation of a federal statutory requirement or an FCC regulation, §§227(b)(3)(A), (c)(5), not on a violation of any state substantive law.     The federal interest in regulating telemarketing to "protec[t] the privacy of individuals" while "permit[ting] legitimate [commercial] practices," 105 Stat. 2394, note following 47 U. S. C. §227 (Congressional Findings) (internal quotation marks omitted), is evident from the regulatory role Congress assigned to the FCC. See, e.g., §227(b)(2) (delegating to the FCC authority to exempt calls from the Act's reach and prohibit calls to businesses). Congress' design would be less well served if consumers had to rely on "the laws or rules of court of a State," §227(b)(3), or the accident of diversity jurisdiction,13 to gain redress for TCPA violations.           Arrow emphasizes a statement made on the Senate floor by Senator Hollings, the TCPA's sponsor:     "Computerized calls are the scourge of modern civilization. They wake us up in the morning; they interrupt our dinner at night; they force the sick and elderly out of bed; they hound us until we want to rip the telephone right out of the wall.     .?????.?????.?????.?????.          "The substitute bill contains a private right-of-action provision that will make it easier for consumers to recover damages from receiving these computerized calls. The provision would allow consumers to bring an action in State court against any entity that violates the bill. The bill does not, because of constitutional constraints, dictate to the States which court in each State shall be the proper venue for such an action, as this is a matter for State legislators to determine. Nevertheless, it is my hope that States will make it as easy as possible for consumers to bring such actions, preferably in small claims court. . . .     "Small claims court or a similar court would allow the consumer to appear before the court without an attorney. The amount of damages in this legislation is set to be fair to both the consumer and the telemarketer. However, it would defeat the purposes of the bill if the attorneys' costs to consumers of bringing an action were greater than the potential damages. I thus expect that the States will act reasonably in permitting their citizens to go to court to enforce this bill." 137 Cong. Rec. 30821-30822 (1991).This statement does not bear the weight Arrow would place on it.     First, the views of a single legislator, even a bill's sponsor, are not controlling. Consumer Product Safety Comm'n v. GTE Sylvania, Inc., 447 U. S. 102, 118 (1980). Second, Senator Hollings did not mention federal-court jurisdiction or otherwise suggest that 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3) is intended to divest federal courts of authority to hear TCPA claims. Hollings no doubt believed that mine-run TCPA claims would be pursued most expeditiously in state small-claims court.14 But one cannot glean from his statement any expectation that those courts, or state courts generally, would have exclusive jurisdiction over private actions alleging violations of the Act or of the FCC's implementing regulations. Third, even if we agreed with Arrow that Senator Hollings expected private TCPA actions to proceed solely in state courts, and even if other supporters shared his view, that expectation would not control our judgment on 28 U. S. C. §1331's compass. Cf. Yellow Freight, 494 U. S., at 826 ("persuasive showing that most legislators, judges, and administrators . . . involved in the enactment, amendment, enforcement, and interpretation of Title VII expected that such litigation would be processed exclusively in federal courts" did not overcome presumption of concurrent state-court jurisdiction).     Among its arguments for state-court exclusivity, Arrow raises a concern about the impact on federal courts were we to uphold §1331 jurisdiction over private actions under the TCPA. "[G]iven the enormous volume of telecommunications presenting potential claims," Arrow projects, federal courts could be inundated by $500-per-violation TCPA claims. Brief for Respondent 33. "Moreover, if plaintiffs are free to bring TCPA claims in federal court under §1331, then defendants sued in state court would be equally free to remove those cases to federal court under 28 U. S. C. §1441." Id., at 22-23. Indeed, Arrow suggests, defendants could use removal as a mechanism to force small-claims-court plaintiffs to abandon suit rather than "figh[t] it out" in the "more expensive federal forum." Id., at 23.     Arrow's floodgates argument assumes "a shocking degree of noncompliance" with the Act, Reply Brief 11, and seems to us more imaginary than real. The current federal district court civil filing fee is $350. 28 U. S. C. §1914(a). How likely is it that a party would bring a $500 claim in, or remove a $500 claim to, federal court? Lexis and Westlaw searches turned up 65 TCPA claims removed to federal district courts in Illinois, Indiana, and Wisconsin since the Seventh Circuit held, in October 2005, that the Act does not confer exclusive jurisdiction on state courts. All 65 cases were class actions, not individual cases removed from small-claims court.15 There were also 26 private TCPA claims brought initially in federal district courts; of those, 24 were class actions.IV     Nothing in the text, structure, purpose, or legislative history of the TCPA calls for displacement of the federal-question jurisdiction U. S. district courts ordinarily have under 28 U. S. C. §1331. In the absence of direction from Congress stronger than any Arrow has advanced, we apply the familiar default rule: Federal courts have §1331 jurisdiction over claims that arise under federal law. Because federal law gives rise to the claim for relief Mims has stated and specifies the substantive rules of decision, the Eleventh Circuit erred in dismissing Mims's case for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction.*??*??*     For the reasons stated, the judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESRespondent Bormes, an attorney, filed suit against the Federal Government, alleging that the electronic receipt he received when paying his client's federal-court filing fee on Pay.gov included the last four digits of his credit card number and the card's expiration date, in willful violation of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), 15 U. S. C. §1681 et seq. He sought damages under §1681n and asserted jurisdiction under §1681p, as well as under the Little Tucker Act, which grants district courts "original jurisdiction, concurrent with the United States Court of Federal Claims, of . . . [a]ny. . . civil action or claim against the United States, not exceeding $10,000 in amount, founded . . . upon . . . any Act of Congress," 28 U. S. C. §1346(a)(2). In dismissing the suit, the District Court held that FCRA did not explicitly waive the Federal Government's sovereign immunity. Bormes appealed to the Federal Circuit, which vacated the District Court's decision, holding that the Little Tucker Act provided the Government's consent to suit because the underlying statute--FCRA--could fairly be interpreted as mandating a right of recovery in damages.Held: The Little Tucker Act does not waive the Government's sovereign immunity with respect to FCRA damages actions. Pp. 4-11.     (a) The Little Tucker Act and its companion statute, the Tucker Act, provide the Federal Government's consent to suit for certain money-damages claims "premised on other sources of law," United States v. Navajo Nation, 556 U. S. 287, 290. The general terms of the Tucker Acts are displaced, however, when a law imposing monetary liability has its own judicial remedies. In that event, the specific remedial scheme establishes the exclusive framework for determining the scope of liability under the statute. See, e.g., Hinck v. United States, 550 U. S. 501. Pp. 4-7.     (b) FCRA is such a statute. Its detailed remedial scheme sets "out a carefully circumscribed, time-limited, plaintiff-specific" cause of action, and "also precisely define[s] the appropriate forum," 550 U. S., at 507. FCRA authorizes aggrieved consumers to hold "any person" who "willfully" or "negligent[ly]" fails to comply with the Act's requirements liable for specified damages, 15 U. S. C. §§1681n(a), 1681o; requires enforcement claims to be brought within a specified limitations period, §1681p; and provides that jurisdiction will lie "in any appropriate United States district court, without regard to the amount in controversy," ibid. Because FCRA enables claimants to pursue monetary relief in court without resort to the Tucker Act, only its own text can determine whether Congress unequivocally intended to impose the statute's damages liability on the Federal Government. Pp. 7-10.626 F. 3d 574, vacated and remanded.     Scalia, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Opinion of the Court?568 U. S. ____ (2012)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 11-192UNITED STATES, PETITIONER v. JAMES X. BORMESon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit[November 13, 2012]     Justice Scalia delivered the opinion of the Court.     The Little Tucker Act, 28 U. S. C. §1346(a)(2), provides that "[t]he district courts shall have original jurisdiction, concurrent with the United States Court of Federal Claims, of . . . [a]ny. . . civil action or claim against the United States, not exceeding $10,000 in amount, founded . . . upon . . . any Act of Congress." We consider whether the Little Tucker Act waives the sovereign immunity of the United States with respect to damages actions for violations of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), 15 U. S. C. §1681 et seq.I     The Fair Credit Reporting Act has as one of its purposes to "protect consumer privacy." Safeco Ins. Co. of America v. Burr, 551 U. S. 47, 52 (2007); see 84 Stat. 1128, 15 U. S. C. §1681. To that end, FCRA provides, among other things, that "no person that accepts credit cards or debit cards for the transaction of business shall print more than the last 5 digits of the card number or the expiration date upon any receipt provided to the cardholder at the point of the sale or transaction." §1681c(g)(1) (emphasis added). The Act defines "person" as "any individual, partnership, corporation, trust, estate, cooperative, association, government or governmental subdivision or agency, or other entity." §1681a(b).     FCRA imposes civil liability for willful or negligent noncompliance with its requirements: "Any person who willfully fails to comply" with the Act "with respect to any consumer," "is liable to that consumer" for actual damages or damages "of not less than $100 and not more than $1,000," as well as punitive damages, attorney's fees, and costs. §1681n(a); see also §1681o (civil liability for negligent noncompliance). The Act includes a jurisdictional provision, which provides that "[a]n action to enforce any liability created under this subchapter may be brought in any appropriate United States district court, without regard to the amount in controversy, or in any other court of competent jurisdiction" within the earlier of "2 years after the date of discovery by the plaintiff of the violation that is the basis for such liability" or "5 years after the date on which the violation that is the basis for such liability occurs." §1681p.     Respondent James X. Bormes is an attorney who filed a putative class action against the United States in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois seeking damages under FCRA. Bormes alleged that he paid a $350 federal-court filing fee for a client using his own credit card on Pay.gov, an Internet-based system used by federal courts and dozens of federal agencies to process online payment transactions. According to Bormes, his Pay.gov electronic receipt included the last four digits of his credit card, in addition to its expiration date, in willful violation of §1681c(g)(1). He claimed that he and thousands of similarly situated persons were entitled to recover damages under §1681n, and asserted jurisdiction under §1681p, as well as under the Little Tucker Act, 28 U. S. C. §1346(a)(2).     The District Court dismissed the suit, holding that FCRA does not contain the explicit waiver of sovereign immunity necessary to permit a damages suit against the United States. 638 F. Supp. 2d 958, 962 (ND Ill. 2009). The court did not address the Little Tucker Act as an asserted basis for jurisdiction. Respondent appealed to the Federal Circuit, which has exclusive jurisdiction "of an appeal from a final decision of a district court of the United States . . . if the jurisdiction of that court was based, in whole or in part, on" the Little Tucker Act. 28 U. S. C. §1295(a)(2). Arguing that the Little Tucker Act's jurisdictional grant did not apply to respondent's suit, the Government moved to transfer the appeal to the Seventh Circuit.     The Federal Circuit denied the transfer motion and went on to vacate the District Court's decision. Without deciding whether FCRA itself contained the requisite waiver of sovereign immunity, the court held that the Little Tucker Act provided the Government's consent to suit for violation of FCRA. The court explained that the Little Tucker Act applied because FCRA " 'can fairly be interpreted as mandating compensation by the Federal Government for the damage sustained.' " 626 F. 3d 574, 578 (2010) (quoting United States v. White Mountain Apache Tribe, 537 U. S. 465, 472 (2003)). This "fair interpretation" rule, the court explained, "demands a showing 'demonstrably lower' than the initial waiver of sovereign immunity" contained in the Little Tucker Act itself. 626 F. 3d, at 578. The court reasoned that FCRA satisfied the "fair interpretation" rule because its damages provision applies to "any person" who willfully violates its requirements, 15 U. S. C. §1681n(a), and the Act elsewhere defines "person" to include "any . . . government," §1681a(b). 626 F. 3d, at 580. The Federal Circuit remanded to the District Court for further proceedings. We granted certiorari, 565 U. S. ___ (2012).II     Sovereign immunity shields the United States from suit absent a consent to be sued that is " 'unequivocally expressed.' " United States v. Nordic Village, Inc., 503 U. S. 30, 33-34 (1992) (quoting Irwin v. Department of Veterans Affairs, 498 U. S. 89, 95 (1990); some internal quotation marks omitted). The Little Tucker Act is one statute that unequivocally provides the Federal Government's consent to suit for certain money-damages claims. United States v. Mitchell, 463 U. S. 206, 216 (1983) (Mitchell II). Subject to exceptions not relevant here, the Little Tucker Act provides that "district courts shall have original jurisdiction, concurrent with the United States Court of Federal Claims," of a "civil action or claim against the United States, not exceeding $10,000 in amount, founded either upon the Constitution, or any Act of Congress, or any regulation of an executive department, or upon any express or implied contract with the United States, or for liquidated or unliquidated damages in cases not sounding in tort." 28 U. S. C. §1346(a)(2).1 The Little Tucker Act and its companion statute, the Tucker Act, §1491(a)(1),2 do not themselves "creat[e] substantive rights," but "are simply jurisdictional provisions that operate to waive sovereign immunity for claims premised on other sources of law." United States v. Navajo Nation, 556 U. S. 287, 290 (2009).     Bormes argues that whether or not FCRA itself unam-biguously waives sovereign immunity, the Little Tucker Act authorizes his FCRA damages claim against the United States. The question, then, is whether a damages claim under FCRA "falls within the terms of the Tucker Act," so that "the United States has presumptively consented to suit." Mitchell II, supra, at 216. It does not. Where, as in FCRA, a statute contains its own self-executing remedial scheme, we look only to that statute to determine whether Congress intended to subject the United States to damages liability.A     The Court of Claims was established, and the Tucker Act enacted, to open a judicial avenue for certain mone-tary claims against the United States. Before the creation of the Court of Claims in 1855, see Act of Feb. 24, 1855 (1855 Act), ch. 122, §1, 10 Stat. 612, it was not uncommon for statutes to impose monetary obligations on the United States without specifying a means of judicial enforcement.3 As a result, claimants routinely petitioned Congress for private bills to recover money owed by the Federal Government. See Mitchell II, supra, at 212 (citing P. Bator, P. Mishkin, D. Shapiro & H. Wechsler, Hart and Wechsler's The Federal Courts and the Federal System 98 (2d ed. 1973)). As this individualized legislative process became increasingly burdensome for Congress, the Court of Claims was created "to relieve the pressure on Congress caused by the volume of private bills." Glidden Co. v. Zdanok, 370 U. S. 530, 552 (1962) (plurality opinion). The 1855 Act authorized the Court of Claims to hear claims against the United States "founded upon any law of Congress," §1, 10 Stat. 612, and thus allowed claimants to sue the Federal Government for monetary relief premised on other sources of law. (Specialized legislation remained necessary to authorize the payments approved by the Court of Claims until 1863, when Congress empowered the court to enter final judgments. See Act of Mar. 3, 1863 (1863 Act), ch. 92, 12 Stat. 765; Mitchell II, supra, at 212-214 (recounting the history of the Court of Claims)).     Enacted in 1887, the Tucker Act was the successor statute to the 1855 and 1863 Acts and replaced most of their provisions. See Act of Mar. 3, 1887 (1887 Act), ch. 359, 24 Stat. 505; Mitchell II, supra, at 213-214. Like the 1855 Act before it, the Tucker Act provided the Federal Government's consent to suit in the Court of Claims for claims "founded upon . . . any law of Congress." 1887 Act §1, 24 Stat. 505. Section 2 of the 1887 Act created concurrent jurisdiction in the district courts for claims of up to $1,000. The Tucker Act's jurisdictional grant, and accompanying immunity waiver, supplied the missing ingredient for an action against the United States for the breach of monetary obligations not otherwise judicially enforceable.4B     The Tucker Act is displaced, however, when a law assertedly imposing monetary liability on the United States contains its own judicial remedies. In that event, the specific remedial scheme establishes the exclusive framework for the liability Congress created under the statute. Because a "precisely drawn, detailed statute pre-empts more general remedies," Hinck v. United States, 550 U. S. 501, 506 (2007) (quoting EC Term of Years Trust v. United States, 550 U. S. 429, 434 (2007); internal quotation marks omitted), FCRA's self-executing remedial scheme supersedes the gap-filling role of the Tucker Act.     We have long recognized that an additional remedy in the Court of Claims is foreclosed when it contradicts the limits of a precise remedial scheme. In Nichols v. United States, 7 Wall. 122, 131 (1869), the issue was whether the 1855 Act authorized suit in the Court of Claims for improper assessment of duties on imported liquor that had already been paid without protest. The Court held that it did not. The revenue laws already provided a remedy: An aggrieved merchant could sue to recover the tax, but only after paying the duty under protest. Act of Feb. 26, 1845, ch. 22, 5 Stat. 727. The Court rejected the supposition that "Congress, after having carefully constructed a revenue system, with ample provisions to redress wrong, intended to give to the taxpayer and importer a further and different remedy." 7 Wall., at 131. Permitting suit under the 1855 Act, the Court concluded, would frustrate congressional intent with respect to the specific remedial scheme already in place. The 1855 Act was confined to a gap-filling role. As we said in a later case, "the general laws which govern the Court of Claims may be resorted to for relief" only because "[n]o special remedy has been provided" to enforce a payment to which the claimant was entitled. United States v. Kaufman, 96 U. S. 567, 569 (1878). Where the "liability is one created by statute," the "special remedy provided by the same statute is exclusive." Ibid.     Our more recent cases have consistently held that statutory schemes with their own remedial framework exclude alternative relief under the general terms of the Tucker Act. See, e.g., Hinck, supra; United States v. Fausto, 484 U. S. 439 (1988); United States v. Erika, Inc., 456 U. S. 201 (1982). Respondent contends that in each of those cases Congress had unambiguously demonstrated its intent to foreclose additional review by the Court of Federal Claims--whereas here, no similar intent to preclude Tucker Act jurisdiction is apparent. See Brief for Respondent 27-28. But our precedents collectively stand for a more basic proposition: Where a specific statutory scheme provides the accoutrements of a judicial action, the metes and bounds of the liability Congress intended to create can only be divined from the text of the statute itself.5     In Hinck, for example, we held that the Tax Court provides the exclusive forum for suits under 26 U. S. C. §6404(h), which authorizes judicial review of the Secre-tary's decision not to abate interest under §6404(e)(1). We relied on "our past recognition that when Congress enacts a specific remedy when no remedy was previously recognized . . . the remedy provided is generally regarded as exclusive." 550 U. S., at 506. Section 6404(h), we concluded, "fits the bill": it "provides a forum for adjudication, a limited class of potential plaintiffs, a statute of limitations, a standard of review, and authorization for judicial relief." Ibid. It did not matter that Congress "fail[ed] explicitly to define the Tax Court's jurisdiction as exclusive." Ibid. We found it "quite plain that the terms of §6404(h)--a 'precisely drawn, detailed statute' filling a perceived hole in the law--control all requests for review of §6404(e)(1) determinations." Ibid.     Like §6404(h), FCRA creates a detailed remedial scheme. Its provisions "set out a carefully circumscribed, time-limited, plaintiff-specific" cause of action, and "also precisely define the appropriate forum." Id., at 507. It authorizes aggrieved consumers to hold "any person" who "willfully" or "negligent[ly]" fails to comply with the Act's requirements liable for specified damages. 15 U. S. C. §§1681n(a), 1681o. Claims to enforce liability must be brought within a specified limitations period, §1681p, and jurisdiction will lie "in any appropriate United States district court, without regard to the amount in controversy, or in any other court of competent jurisdiction." Ibid. Without resort to the Tucker Act, FCRA enables claimants to pursue in court the monetary relief contemplated by the statute.     Plaintiffs cannot, therefore, mix and match FCRA's provisions with the Little Tucker Act's immunity waiver to create an action against the United States. Since FCRA is a detailed remedial scheme, only its own text can determine whether the damages liability Congress crafted extends to the Federal Government. To hold otherwise--to permit plaintiffs to remedy the absence of a waiver of sovereign immunity in specific, detailed statutes by pleading general Tucker Act jurisdiction--would transform the sovereign-immunity landscape.     The Federal Circuit was therefore wrong to conclude that the Tucker Act justified applying a "less stringent" sovereign-immunity analysis to FCRA than our cases require. 626 F. 3d, at 582. It distorted our case law in applying to FCRA the immunity-waiver standard we expressed in White Mountain Apache Tribe, 537 U. S., at 472: whether the statute " 'can fairly be interpreted as mandating compensation by the Federal Government for the damage sustained.' " 626 F. 3d, at 578. That is the test for determining whether a statute that imposes an obligation but does not provide the elements of a cause of action qualifies for suit under the Tucker Act--more specifically, whether the failure to perform an obligation undoubtedly imposed on the Federal Government creates a right to monetary relief. See White Mountain Apache Tribe, supra; Mitchell II, 463 U. S. 206. That test is not relevant when a "mandate of compensation" is contained in a statute that provides a detailed judicial remedy against those who are subject to its requirements. FCRA is such a statute. By using the "fair interpretation" test to determine whether FCRA's civil liability provisions apply to the United States, the Federal Circuit directed the test to a purpose for which it was not designed and leapfrogged the threshold concern that the Tucker Act cannot be superimposed on an existing remedial scheme.*??*??*     We do not decide here whether FCRA itself waives the Federal Government's immunity to damages actions under §1681n. That question is for the Seventh Circuit to consider once this case is transferred to it on remand. But whether or not FCRA contains the necessary waiver of immunity, any attempt to append a Tucker Act remedy to the statute's existing remedial scheme interferes with its intended scope of liability.     The judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated, and the case remanded with instructions to transfer the case to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESCongress enacted the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005 (CAFA) to lower diversity jurisdiction requirements in class actions and, as relevant here, in mass actions, i.e., civil actions "in which monetary relief claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact," 28 U. S. C. §1332(d)(11)(B)(i). Petitioner Mississippi sued respondent liquid crystal display (LCD) manufacturers in state court, alleging violations of state law and seeking, inter alia, restitution for LCD purchases made by itself and its citizens. Respondents sought to remove the case to federal court. The District Court held that the suit qualified as a mass action under §1332(d)(11)(B)(i), but remanded the suit to state court on the ground that it fell within CAFA's "general public" exception, §1332(d)(11)(B)(ii)(III). The Fifth Circuit reversed, agreeing with the District Court that the suit was a mass action but finding the general public exception inapplicable.Held: Because Mississippi is the only named plaintiff, this suit does not constitute a mass action under CAFA. Pp. 5-14.     (a) Contrary to respondents' argument, CAFA's "100 or more persons" phrase does not encompass unnamed persons who are real parties in interest to claims brought by named plaintiffs. Congress knew how to draft language to that effect when it intended such a meaning, see, e.g., §§1332(d)(5)(B), 1332(d)(1)(D). That it did not do so in the mass action provision indicates that Congress did not want the provision's numerosity requirement to be satisfied by counting unnamed individuals who possess an interest in the suit.     Respondents' understanding also cannot be reconciled with the fact that the "100 or more persons" are not unspecified individuals with no participation in the suit but are the "plaintiffs" subsequently referred to in the provision, i.e., the very parties proposing to join their claims in a single trial. This is evident in two key ways. First, CAFA uses "persons" and "plaintiffs" the same way they are used in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 20, which refers to "persons" as individuals who are proposing to join as "plaintiffs" in a single action. Second, it is difficult to imagine how the "claims of 100 or more" unnamed individuals could be "proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the . . . claims" of some completely different group of named plaintiffs "involve common questions of law or fact."     Construing "plaintiffs" to include both named and unnamed real parties in interest would stretch the meaning of "plaintiff" beyond recognition. A "plaintiff" is commonly understood to be a party who brings a civil suit in a court of law, not anyone, named or unnamed, whom a suit may benefit. Moreover, respondents' definition would also have to apply to the mass action provision's subsequent reference to "plaintiffs" in the phrase "jurisdiction shall exist only over those plaintiffs whose claims [exceed $75,000]," §1332(d)(11)(B)(i). See Brown v. Gardner, 513 U. S. 115, 118. This would result in an administrative nightmare that Congress could not possibly have intended, see Griffin v. Oceanic Contractors, Inc., 458 U. S. 564, 575, where district courts would have to identify hundreds (or in this case, hundreds of thousands) of unnamed parties whose claims are for less than $75,000 and then decide how to dispose of their claims. Pp. 5-10.     (b) Statutory context reinforces this Court's reading of the mass action provision. CAFA provides that once removal occurs, a case shall not be transferred to another court "unless a majority of the plaintiffs in the action request transfer." §1332(d)(11)(C)(i). If "plaintiffs" included unnamed parties, it would be surpassingly difficult for a court to poll the enormous number of real parties in interest to decide whether an action may be transferred. Moreover, respondents' position that the action here should be removed because it is similar to a class action fails to recognize that the mass action provision functions largely as a backstop to ensure that CAFA's relaxed class action jurisdictional rules cannot be evaded by a suit that names a host of plaintiffs rather than using the class device. Had Congress wanted CAFA to authorize removal of representative actions brought by States as sole plaintiffs on respondents' theory, it would have done so through the class action provision, not the mass action provision. Pp. 10-11.     (c) This Court has interpreted the diversity jurisdiction statute to require courts in certain contexts to look behind the pleadings to ensure that parties are not improperly creating or destroying diversity jurisdiction, see, e.g., Wecker v. National Enameling & Stamping Co., 204 U. S. 176, 185-186, but Congress did not intend this background inquiry to apply to the mass action provision. First, it could make sense to incorporate the background inquiry into the mass action provision if the inquiry had previously been applied in a similar manner. That is not the case here, however, and so any presumption that Congress wanted to incorporate the inquiry, if it exists at all, would be comparatively weak. Second, even if the background principle had previously been applied in this manner, Congress expressly indicated that it did not want the principle to apply to the mass action provision both through the textual indicators described above and by prohibiting defendants from joining unnamed individuals to a lawsuit in order to turn it into a mass action, §1332(d)(11)(B)(ii)(II). Requiring district courts to identify unnamed persons interested in the suit would run afoul of that intent. Pp. 11-13.701 F. 3d 796, reversed and remanded.     Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Opinion of the Court?571 U. S. ____ (2014)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 12-1036MISSISSIPPI ex rel. JIM HOOD, ATTORNEY GENERAL, PETITIONER v. AU OPTRONICS CORPORATION et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit[January 14, 2014]     Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.     Under the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005 (CAFA or Act), defendants in civil suits may remove "mass actions" from state to federal court. CAFA defines a "mass action" as "any civil action . . . in which monetary relief claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact." 28 U. S. C. §1332(d)(11)(B)(i). The question presented is whether a suit filed by a State as the sole plaintiff constitutes a "mass action" under CAFA where it includes a claim for restitution based on injuries suffered by the State's citizens. We hold that it does not. According to CAFA's plain text, a "mass action" must involve monetary claims brought by 100 or more persons who propose to try those claims jointly as named plaintiffs. Because the State of Mississippi is the only named plaintiff in the instant action, the case must be remanded to state court.IA     Congress enacted CAFA in order to "amend the procedures that apply to consideration of interstate class actions." 119 Stat. 4. In doing so, Congress recognized that "[c]lass action lawsuits are an important and valuable part of the legal system." CAFA §2. It was concerned, however, that certain requirements of federal diversity jurisdiction, 28 U. S. C. §1332, had functioned to "kee[p] cases of national importance" in state courts rather than federal courts. CAFA §2.     CAFA accordingly loosened the requirements for diversity jurisdiction for two types of cases--"class actions" and "mass actions." The Act defines "class action" to mean "any civil action filed under rule 23 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure or similar State statute or rule of judicial procedure." 28 U. S. C. §1332(d)(1)(B). And it defines "mass action" to mean "any civil action . . . in which monetary relief claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact." §1332(d)(11)(B)(i).     For class and mass actions, CAFA expanded diversity jurisdiction in two key ways. First, it replaced the ordinary requirement of complete diversity of citizenship among all plaintiffs and defendants, see State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v. Tashire, 386 U. S. 523, 530-531 (1967), with a requirement of minimal diversity. Under that requirement, a federal court may exercise jurisdiction over a class action if "any member of a class of plaintiffs is a citizen of a State different from any defendant." §1332(d)(2)(A). The same rule applies to mass actions. See §1332(d)(11)(A) ("[A] mass action shall be deemed . . . removable under [§§1332(d)(2) through (d)(10)]"). Second, whereas §1332(a) ordinarily requires each plaintiff's claim to exceed the sum or value of $75,000, see Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Allapattah Services, Inc., 545 U. S. 546, 554-555 (2005), CAFA grants federal jurisdiction over class and mass actions in which the aggregate amount in controversy exceeds $5 million. §§1332(d)(2), (d)(6), (d)(11)(A). Class and mass actions filed in state court that satisfy CAFA's requirements may be removed to federal court, 28 U. S. C. §1453, but federal jurisdiction in a mass action, unlike a class action, "shall exist only over those plaintiffs" whose claims individually satisfy the $75,000 amount in controversy requirement, §1332(d)(11)(B)(i).1B     Respondents manufacture liquid crystal displays, or LCDs. In March 2011, the State of Mississippi sued them in state court, alleging that they had formed an international cartel to restrict competition and raise prices in the LCD market. The State claimed that these actions violated two Mississippi statutes: the Mississippi Antitrust Act, Miss. Code Ann. §75-21-1 et seq. (2009), and the Mississippi Consumer Protection Act, §75-24-1 et seq. (2009 and Cum. Supp. 2013). The State sought injunctive relief and civil penalties under both statutes, along with punitive damages, costs, and attorney's fees. It also sought restitution for its own purchases "of LCD products and the purchases of its citizens." App. to Brief in Opposition 65a; §75-24-11.     Respondents filed a notice to remove the case from state to federal court, arguing that the case was removable under CAFA as either a "class action" or a "mass action." The District Court ruled that the suit did not qualify as a "class action" because it was "not brought pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23 or a 'similar State statute or rule of judicial procedure.' " 876 F. Supp. 2d 758, 769 (SD Miss. 2012). But it held that the suit did qualify as a "mass action," because "[i]t is a civil action 'in which monetary relief claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact.' " Id., at 771. The District Court reached that conclusion on the basis of Fifth Circuit precedent in Louisiana ex rel. Caldwell v. Allstate Ins. Co., 536 F. 3d 418 (CA5 2008), which it understood to "stan[d] for the proposition that the words 'persons' and 'plaintiffs' in [the mass action definition] are to be defined as 'real parties in interest.' " 876 F. Supp. 2d, at 771. Applying that rule, the court found that 100 or more unidentified Mississippi consumers had purchased LCD screens and were therefore real parties in interest to the State's restitution claim. Ibid. The court noted the "possibility that a 'mass action' should be thought of as a 'mass joinder,' "--that is, as a suit involving 100 or more "named plaintiffs." Ibid., n. 9. But it deemed that interpretation to be foreclosed by Caldwell.     The District Court nonetheless remanded the case to state court on the basis of CAFA's "general public exception," which excludes from the "mass action" definition "any civil action in which . . . all of the claims in the action are asserted on behalf of the general public (and not on behalf of individual claimants or members of a purported class) pursuant to a State statute specifically authorizing such action." 28 U. S. C. §1332(d)(11)(B)(ii)(III).     The Court of Appeals reversed. 701 F. 3d 796 (CA5 2012). It agreed with the District Court's determination that Mississippi's suit is not a "class action" under CAFA.2 Id., at 799. It also agreed that, under Caldwell, the suit qualifies as a "mass action" because "[t]he real parties in interest in Mississippi's suit are those more than 100 . . . individual citizens who purchased the [LCD] products within Mississippi." 701 F. 3d, at 800. It disagreed, however, with the District Court's ruling that the suit falls within the general public exception. Id., at 802-803.3 Judge Elrod concurred in the judgment, noting that after the Fifth Circuit's decision in Caldwell, three Courts of Appeals had deemed similar lawsuits not to be mass actions removable under CAFA.4 We granted certiorari to resolve this split of authority, 569 U. S. ___ (2013), and now reverse.IIA     Our analysis begins with the statutory text. Sebelius v. Cloer, 569 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 6). The statute provides:"[T]he term mass action means any civil action (except a [class action]) in which monetary relief claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact, except that jurisdiction shall exist only over those plaintiffs whose claims in a mass action satisfy the jurisdictional amount requirements under subsection (a)." §1332(d)(11)(B)(i).     The parties do not dispute that this provision encompasses suits that are brought jointly by 100 or more named plaintiffs who propose to try their claims together. The question is whether the provision also includes suits brought by fewer than 100 named plaintiffs on the theory that there may be 100 or more unnamed persons who are real parties in interest as beneficiaries to any of the plaintiffs' claims. Respondents argue that the provision covers such suits because "claims of 100 or more persons" refers to "the persons to whom the claim belongs, i.e., the real parties in interest to the claims," regardless of whether those persons are named or unnamed. Brief for Respondents 19 (emphasis in original). We disagree.     To start, the statute says "100 or more persons," not "100 or more named or unnamed real parties in interest." Had Congress intended the latter, it easily could have drafted language to that effect. Indeed, when Congress wanted a numerosity requirement in CAFA to be satisfied by counting unnamed parties in interest in addition to named plaintiffs, it explicitly said so: CAFA provides that in order for a class action to be removable, "the number of members of all proposed plaintiff classes" must be 100 or greater, §1332(d)(5)(B), and it defines "class members" to mean "the persons (named or unnamed) who fall within the definition of the proposed or certified class," §1332(d)(1)(D). Congress chose not to use the phrase "named or unnamed" in CAFA's mass action provision, a decision we understand to be intentional. See Dean v. United States, 556 U. S. 568, 573 (2009) (" '[W]here Congress includes particular language in one section of a statute but omits it in another section of the same Act, it is generally presumed that Congress acts intentionally and purposely in the disparate inclusion or exclusion' ").     More fundamentally, respondents' interpretation cannot be reconciled with the fact that the "100 or more persons" referred to in the statute are not unspecified individuals who have no actual participation in the suit, but instead the very "plaintiffs" referred to later in the sentence--the parties who are proposing to join their claims in a single trial. Congress made this understanding evident in two key ways.     First, we presume that " 'Congress is aware of existing law when it passes legislation.' " Hall v. United States, 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 9). Here, Congress used the terms "persons" and "plaintiffs" just as they are used in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 20, governing party joinder. Where §1332(d)(11)(B)(i) requires that the "claims of 100 or more persons [must be] proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact," Rule 20 provides that "[p]ersons may join in one action as plaintiffs if they assert any right to relief jointly . . . and any question of law or fact common to all plaintiffs will arise in the action." Thus, just as it is used in Rule 20, the term "persons" in §1332(d)(11)(B)(i) refers to the individuals who are proposing to join as plaintiffs in a single action.     Second, respondents' interpretation of "persons" cannot square with the statute's requirement that the claims of the "100 or more persons" must be proposed for joint trial "on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact." §1332(d)(11)(B)(i). It is difficult to imagine how the claims of one set of unnamed individuals could be proposed for joint trial on the ground that the claims of some completely different group of named plaintiffs share common questions. The better understanding is that Congress meant for the "100 or more persons" and the proposed "plaintiffs" to be one and the same.     Recognizing that the statute's use of the term "persons" could be a reference to proposed plaintiffs, respondents assert that "plaintiffs," like "persons," should be construed to "includ[e] both named and unnamed real parties in interest." Brief for Respondents 24. But that stretches the meaning of "plaintiff" beyond recognition. The term "plaintiff" is among the most commonly understood of legal terms of art: It means a "party who brings a civil suit in a court of law." Black's Law Dictionary 1267 (9th ed. 2009); see also Webster's Third New International Dictionary 1729 (1961) (defining "plaintiff" to mean "one who commences a personal action or lawsuit," or "the complaining party in any litigation"). It certainly does not mean "anyone, named or unnamed, whom a suit may benefit," as respondents suggest.5     Moreover, Congress used the term "plaintiffs" twice in the mass action provision. The provision encompasses actions in which monetary "claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions," and it then provides that "jurisdiction shall exist only over those plaintiffs whose claims in a mass action satisfy the jurisdictional amount requiremen[t]" of $75,000. §1332(d) (11)(B)(i). If respondents are correct that "plaintiffs" means unnamed parties in interest where it is used the first time, then so too the second. After all, the "presumption that a given term is used to mean the same thing throughout a statute" is "at its most vigorous when a term is repeated within a given sentence." Brown v. Gardner, 513 U. S. 115, 118 (1994).     Yet if the term "plaintiffs" is stretched to include all unnamed individuals with an interest in the suit, then §1332(d)(11)(B)(i)'s requirement that "jurisdiction shall exist only over those plaintiffs whose claims [exceed $75,000]" becomes an administrative nightmare that Congress could not possibly have intended, see Griffin v. Oceanic Contractors, Inc., 458 U. S. 564, 575 (1982). How is a district court to identify the unnamed parties whose claims in a given case are for less than $75,000? Would the court in this case, for instance, have to hold an evidentiary hearing to determine the identity of each of the hundreds of thousands of unnamed Mississippi citizens who purchased one of respondents' LCD products between 1996 and 2006 (the period alleged in the complaint)? Even if it could identify every such person, how would it ascertain the amount in controversy for each individual claim? Respondents suggest that "[i]n some circumstances, defendants may be able to identify from their payment records any persons who may have claims for overpayments," but they stop notably short of claiming to possess such decades-old records themselves. Brief for Respondents 25.     Furthermore, what would happen with individuals whose claims were valued at less than $75,000? The District Court in this case suggested that if the suit were deemed a mass action, it would sever the claim for "restitution for losses incurred by individuals claiming less than or equal to $75,000 each" and remand that claim back to state court, while allowing the other claims (including the restitution claims exceeding $75,000) to proceed in federal court. 876 F. Supp. 2d, at 775. Even respondents do not defend that outcome, presumably because it would mean that much of the State's lawsuit could proceed in state court after all, simultaneously with the newly severed parallel federal action.6     We think it unlikely that Congress intended that federal district courts engage in these unwieldy inquiries. By contrast, interpreting "plaintiffs" in accordance with its usual meaning--to refer to the actual named parties who bring an action--leads to a straightforward, easy to administer rule under which a court would examine whether the plaintiffs have pleaded in good faith the requisite amount. See Horton v. Liberty Mut. Ins. Co., 367 U. S. 348, 353 (1961). Our decision thus comports with the commonsense observation that "when judges must decide jurisdictional matters, simplicity is a virtue." See Standard Fire Ins. Co. v. Knowles, 568 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 6).B     Our reading of the mass action provision's text is reinforced by the statutory context. See Mohamad v. Palestinian Authority, 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 5-6).     First, the provision of CAFA governing transfer motions confirms our view that the term "plaintiffs" refers to actual named parties as opposed to unnamed real parties in interest. That provision, §1332(d)(11)(C)(i), provides that once a mass action has been removed to federal court, it "shall not thereafter be transferred to any other court . . . unless a majority of the plaintiffs in the action request transfer." If respondents are correct that "plaintiffs" means "unnamed parties in interest," it will be surpassingly difficult for a court to decide in a case like this one whether an action may be transferred. The District Court itself acknowledged this problem, noting that it would have to identify and communicate with "hundreds of thousands if not millions of real parties in interest" to "pol[l] [them] about their preferred forum" if respondents' interpretation were correct. 876 F. Supp. 2d, at 777.     The context in which the mass action provision was enacted lends further support to our conclusion. Congress' overriding concern in enacting CAFA was with class actions. See Preamble, 119 Stat. 4 (describing CAFA as an "[a]ct to amend the procedures that apply to consideration of interstate class actions"); CAFA §2 (Congress' findings with respect to class actions). The mass action provision thus functions largely as a backstop to ensure that CAFA's relaxed jurisdictional rules for class actions cannot be evaded by a suit that names a host of plaintiffs rather than using the class device. Respondents' argument fails to recognize this key distinction. Their position is ultimately that "[t]his action is similar to a class action," such that it should be removed. Brief for Respondents 27. But if Congress had wanted representative actions brought by States as sole plaintiffs to be removable under CAFA on the theory that they are in substance no different from class actions, it would have done so through the class action provision, not the one governing mass actions.7III     Rather than relying on the text of CAFA as the source of its real party in interest inquiry, the Court of Appeals appeared to find such an inquiry necessary on the basis of what it understood to be a background principle: that "federal courts look to the substance of the action and not only at the labels that the parties may attach." Caldwell, 536 F. 3d, at 424. This was error.     We have interpreted the diversity jurisdiction statute to require courts in certain contexts to look behind the pleadings to ensure that parties are not improperly creating or destroying diversity jurisdiction. We have held, for example, that a plaintiff may not keep a case out of federal court by fraudulently naming a nondiverse defendant. Wecker v. National Enameling & Stamping Co., 204 U. S. 176, 185-186 (1907). Nor may a plaintiff create diversity by collusively assigning his interest in an action. Kramer v. Caribbean Mills, Inc., 394 U. S. 823, 825-830 (1969); see also 28 U. S. C. §1359. And in cases involving a State or state official, we have inquired into the real party in interest because a State's presence as a party will destroy complete diversity. Missouri, K. & T. R. Co. v. Missouri Railroad and Warehouse Comm'rs, 183 U. S. 53, 58-59 (1901).     But the question in this case is not simply whether there exists some background principle of analyzing the real parties in interest to a suit; the question is whether Congress intended that courts engage in that analysis when deciding whether a suit is a mass action. Recognizing this fact, respondents do not argue that the real party in interest inquiry employed in the above cases somehow supersedes the text of CAFA; they instead argue that we should read CAFA in light of those cases because " 'Congress expects its statutes to be read in conformity with this Court's precedents.' " Brief for Respondents 19 (quoting United States v. Wells, 519 U. S. 482, 495 (1997)). For two reasons, however, we conclude that Congress did not intend the background inquiry to apply to the mass action provision.     First, it makes sense to infer Congress' intent to incorporate a background principle into a new statute where the principle has previously been applied in a similar manner. But that is not the case here. The background real party in interest inquiry identifies what party's (or parties') citizenship should be considered in determining diversity. The inquiry that respondents urge is quite different: It is an attempt to count up additional unnamed parties in order to satisfy the mass action provision's numerosity requirement. Respondents offer no reason to believe that Congress intended to extend the real party inquiry to this new circumstance, and so any presumption that Congress wanted to incorporate the inquiry, if it exists in this case at all, would be comparatively weak. Cf. Meyer v. Holley, 537 U. S. 280, 286 (2003) ("Congress' silence, while permitting an inference that Congress intended to apply ordinary background tort principles, cannot show that it intended to apply an unusual modification of those rules").8     Second, even if the background principle had previously been applied in the manner sought by respondents, Congress provided express indications that it did not want the principle to apply to the mass action provision. It specified that "the term 'mass action' shall not include any civil action in which . . . the claims are joined upon motion of a defendant." §1332(d)(11)(B)(ii)(II). By prohibiting defendants from joining unnamed individuals to a lawsuit in order to turn it into a mass action, Congress demonstrated its focus on the persons who are actually proposing to join together as named plaintiffs in the suit. Requiring district courts to pierce the pleadings to identify unnamed persons interested in the suit would run afoul of that intent. Moreover, as already discussed, Congress repeatedly used the word "plaintiffs" to describe the 100 or more persons whose claims must be proposed for a joint trial. That word refers to actual, named parties--a concept inherently at odds with the background inquiry into unnamed real parties in interest, who by definition are never plaintiffs. Congress thus clearly displaced a background real party in interest inquiry, even assuming one might otherwise apply. Cf. Barnhart v. Sigmon Coal Co., 534 U. S. 438, 459, n. 16 (2002).*??*??*     For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESThe Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act of 1994 (FAAAA) preempts state laws "related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier . . . with respect to the transportation of property." 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1). This provision borrows from the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 (ADA), which preempts state laws "related to a price, route, or service of an air carrier," §41713(b)(1), but it adds the important qualification, "with respect to transportation of property."          Plaintiff-respondent Pelkey brought suit in New Hampshire Superior Court, alleging that defendant-petitioner Dan's City Used Cars (Dan's City), a towing company, took custody of his car after towing it from his landlord's parking lot without Pelkey's knowledge, failed to notify him of its plan to auction the car, held an auction despite Pelkey's notice that he wanted to reclaim the car, and eventually traded the car away without compensating Pelkey for the loss of his vehicle. In disposing of his car, Pelkey further alleged, Dan's City did not meet the requirements contained in chapter 262 of the New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated, which regulates the disposal of abandoned vehicles by a "storage company." Dan's City's misconduct, Pelkey charged, both violated New Hampshire's Consumer Protection Act and breached the towing company's statutory and common-law duties as a bailee to use reasonable care while in possession of a bailor's property. The court granted summary judgment to Dan's City, concluding that the FAAAA preempted Pelkey's claims. The New Hampshire Supreme Court reversed. It held the FAAAA's preemption clause inapplicable because Pelkey's claims related to Dan's City's conduct in disposing of his car post-storage, not to conduct concerning "the transportation of property," or a towing company's "service."Held: Section 14501(c)(1) does not preempt state-law claims stemming from the storage and disposal of a towed vehicle. Pp. 7-13.     (a) Where Congress has superseded state legislation by statute, this Court's task is to "identify the domain expressly pre-empted," Lorillard Tobacco Co. v. Reilly, 533 U. S. 525, 541, focusing first on the statutory language, CSX Transp., Inc. v. Easterwood, 507 U. S. 658, 664. In Rowe v. New Hampshire Motor Transp. Assn., 552 U. S. 364, 370, this Court's reading of §14501(c)(1) was informed by decisions interpreting parallel language in the ADA's preemption clause. Thus, the Court held, the phrase "related to" embraces state laws "having a connection with or reference to" carrier " 'rates, routes, or services,' " whether directly or indirectly. Ibid. At the same time, the breadth of the words "related to" does not mean that the preemption clause should be read with an "uncritical literalism." New York State Conference of Blue Cross & Blue Shield Plans v. Travelers Ins. Co., 514 U. S. 645, 655-656. The Court has cautioned that §14501(c)(1) does not preempt state laws affecting carrier prices, routes, and services "in only a 'tenuous, remote, or peripheral . . . manner.' " Rowe, 552 U. S., at 371. Pp. 7-8.     (b) Pelkey's state-law claims escape preemption because they are "related to" neither the "transportation of property" nor the "service" of a motor carrier. Although §14501(c)(1) otherwise tracks the ADA's air-carrier preemption provision, the FAAAA formulation's one conspicuous alteration--addition of the words "with respect to the transportation of property"--significantly limits the FAAAA's preemptive scope. It is not sufficient for a state law to relate to the "price, route, or service" of a motor carrier in any capacity; the law must also concern a motor carrier's "transportation of property." Title 49 defines "transportation," in relevant part, as "services related to th[e] movement" of property, "including arranging for . . . storage [and] handling." §13102(23)(B). Pelkey's Consumer Protection Act and negligence claims are not "related to th[e] movement" of his car. Chapter 262 regulates the disposal of vehicles once their transportation--here, by towing--has ended. Pelkey seeks redress only for conduct occurring after the car ceased moving and was stored. Dan's City maintains that because §13102(23)(B)'s definition of "transportation" includes "storage" and "handling," Pelkey's claims fall within §14501(c)(1)'s preemptive ambit. But "storage" and "handling" fit within §13102(23)(B)'s definition only when those services "relat[e] to th[e] movement" of property. Thus temporary storage of an item in transit en route to its final destination qualifies as "transportation," but permanent storage does not. Here, no storage occurred in the course of transporting Pelkey's vehicle.     Pelkey's claims are also unrelated to a "service" a motor carrier renders its customers. The transportation service Dan's City pro-vided--removal of Pelkey's car from his landlord's parking lot--did involve the movement of property, but that service ended months before the conduct on which Pelkey's claims are based. Because chapter 262, on which Pelkey relies, addresses "storage compan[ies]" and "garage owner[s] or keeper[s]," not transportation activities, it has neither a direct nor an indirect connection to transportation services a motor carrier offers its customers. See Rowe, 552 U. S., at 371.     The conclusion that state-law claims regarding disposal of towed vehicles are not preempted is in full accord with Congress' purpose in enacting §14501(c)(1), which was to displace "a State's direct substitution of its own governmental commands for 'competitive market forces' in determining . . . the services that motor carriers will provide." Id., at 372. The New Hampshire prescriptions Pelkey invokes hardly constrain participation in interstate commerce by requiring a motor carrier to offer services not available in the market. Nor do they "freez[e] into place services that carriers might prefer to discontinue in the future." Ibid. Pp. 8-11.     (c) Dan's City's additional arguments in favor of preemption are not persuasive. Dan's City contends that because none of Pelkey's claims fit within the exceptions to preemption detailed in 49 U. S. C. §§14501(c)(2), (3), and (5), his claims must be preempted. But exceptions, while sometimes a helpful interpretive guide, do not in themselves delineate the scope of the rule. Here, the exceptions identify matters a State may regulate when it would otherwise be precluded from doing so, but they do not control more than that.     Dan's City also maintains that Pelkey's claims are "related to" its towing service because selling Pelkey's car was the means by which Dan's City obtained payment for the tow. If such state-law claims were preempted, no law would govern resolution of a non-contract-based dispute arising from a towing company's disposal of a vehicle previously towed or afford a remedy for wrongful disposal. No such design can be attributed to a rational Congress. See Silkwood v. Kerr-McGee Corp., 464 U. S. 238, 251. Pp. 11-13.163 N. H. 483, 44 A. 3d 480, affirmed.     Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Opinion of the Court?569 U. S. ____ (2013)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 12-52DAN'S CITY USED CARS, INC., dba DAN'S CITY AUTO BODY, PETITIONER v. ROBERT PELKEYon writ of certiorari to the supreme court of new hampshire[May 13, 2013]     Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.     This case concerns the preemptive scope of a provision of the Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act of 1994 (FAAAA or Act) applicable to motor carriers. Codified at 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1), the provision reads:"[A] State . . . may not enact or enforce a law, regulation, or other provision having the force and effect of law related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier . . . with respect to the transportation of property."Plaintiff-respondent Robert Pelkey brought suit under New Hampshire law against defendant-petitioner Dan's City Used Cars (Dan's City), a towing company. Pelkey alleged that Dan's City took custody of his car after towing it without Pelkey's knowledge, failed to notify him of its plan to auction the car, held an auction despite Pelkey's communication that he wanted to arrange for the car's return, and eventually traded the car away without compensating Pelkey for the loss of his vehicle.     Disposal of abandoned vehicles by a "storage company" is regulated by chapter 262 of the New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated. See N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§262:31 to 262:40-c (West 2004 and 2012 West Cum. Supp.). Dan's City relied on those laws to dispose of Pelkey's vehicle for nonpayment of towing and storage fees. According to Pelkey, however, Dan's City failed to comply with New Hampshire's provisions governing the sale of stored vehicles and the application of sale proceeds. Pelkey charged that Dan's City's disposal of his car without following the requirements contained in chapter 262 violated the New Hampshire Consumer Protection Act, §358-A:2 (West 2009), as well as Dan's City's statutory and common-law duties as bailee to exercise reasonable care while in possession of a bailor's property.     We hold, in accord with the New Hampshire Supreme Court, that state-law claims stemming from the storage and disposal of a car, once towing has ended, are not sufficiently connected to a motor carrier's service with respect to the transportation of property to warrant preemption under §14501(c)(1). The New Hampshire law in point regulates no towing services, no carriage of property. Instead, it trains on custodians of stored vehicles seeking to sell them. Congress did not displace the State's regulation of that activity by any federal prescription.IA     The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 (ADA), 92 Stat. 1705, largely deregulated the domestic airline industry. In keeping with the statute's aim to achieve "maximum reliance on competitive market forces," id., at 1706, Congress sought to "ensure that the States would not undo federal deregulation with regulation of their own." Morales v. Trans World Airlines, Inc., 504 U. S. 374, 378 (1992). Congress therefore included a preemption provision, now codified at 49 U. S. C. §41713(b)(1), prohibiting States from enacting or enforcing any law "related to a price, route, or service of an air carrier."     Two years later, the Motor Carrier Act of 1980, 94 Stat. 793, extended deregulation to the trucking industry. Congress completed the deregulation 14 years thereafter, in 1994, by expressly preempting state trucking regulation. Congress did so upon finding that state governance of intrastate transportation of property had become "unreasonably burden[some]" to "free trade, interstate commerce, and American consumers." Columbus v. Ours Ga- rage & Wrecker Service, Inc., 536 U. S. 424, 440 (2002) (citing FAAAA §601(a)(1), 108 Stat. 1605). Borrowing from the ADA's preemption clause, but adding a new qualification, §601(c) of the FAAAA supersedes state laws "related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier . . . with respect to the transportation of property." 108 Stat. 1606, now codified at 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1) (emphasis added).1 The Act exempts certain measures from its preemptive scope, including state laws regulating motor vehicle safety, size, and weight; motor carrier insurance; and the intrastate transportation of household goods. §§14501(c)(2)(A)-(B). Also exempted from preemption are state laws "relating to the price" of "vehicle transportation by a tow truck," if towing occurs without prior consent of the vehicle owner. §14501(c)(2)(C).     This case involves the interaction between the FAAAA's preemption clause and the State of New Hampshire's regulation of the removal, storage, and disposal of abandoned motor vehicles. Chapter 262 of the New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated establishes procedures by which an "authorized official" or the "owner . . . of any private property . . . on which a vehicle is parked without permission" may arrange to have the vehicle towed and stored. N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§262:31 to 262:34, 262:40-a(I). It generally makes the owner of a towed vehicle responsible for reasonable removal and storage fees. See §262:33(I) (reasonable removal and storage charges "shall be a lien against the vehicle which shall be paid by the owner"); §262:33(II) (owner entitled to recover vehicle after "payment of all reasonable towing and storage charges"); §262:40-a(II) (owner of a vehicle towed from a parking lot or parking garage is responsible for "removal and storage charges" when the lot or garage conspicuously posts notice of parking restrictions).     Under chapter 262, the custodian of a car that remains unclaimed for 30 days following a tow may dispose of the vehicle upon compliance with notice requirements. §§262:36-a(I), (II). A "garage owner or keeper" must post notices of an impending sale in public places and provide mail notice to the vehicle owner whenever the owner's address may "be ascertained . . . by the exercise of reasonable diligence." §262:38. If a towed vehicle is not fit for legal use, its custodian need not provide individual or public notice prior to disposal, and sale of the vehicle may occur upon written notice to and approval from New Hampshire's Department of Public Safety. §262:36-a(III).2     On compliance with the statutory requirements, the custodian of a stored vehicle may sell the vehicle by public auction at its place of business. §262:37. The storage company may use the sale proceeds to pay "the amount of the liens and the reasonable expenses incident to the sale." §262:39 (West 2004). Remaining proceeds are payable "to the [vehicle's] owner . . . if claimed at any time within one year from the date of sale." Ibid.B     The landlord of the apartment complex in which Pelkey lived required tenants to remove their cars from the parking lot in the event of a snowstorm, so that the snow could be cleared. Pelkey's 2004 Honda Civic remained in the lot during and after a February 2007 snowstorm. At the landlord's request, Dan's City towed and stored the vehicle. Confined to his bed with a serious medical condition, Pelkey did not know his car had been towed. Soon after removal of his car, Pelkey was admitted to the hospital for a procedure to amputate his left foot, during which he suffered a heart attack. He remained under hospital care until his discharge on April 9, 2007.     Unaware of Pelkey's identity or illness, Dan's City sought permission from New Hampshire's Department of Public Safety to sell the Honda at auction without notice. In response, the department identified Pelkey as the last known owner of the vehicle. Dan's City wrote to Pelkey, notifying him that it had towed and was storing his car. When the post office returned the letter, checking the box "moved, left no address," Dan's City scheduled an auction for April 19. Meanwhile, in the days following Pelkey's discharge from the hospital, his attorney learned from counsel for the apartment complex that the car had been towed by Dan's City and was scheduled to be sold at public auction. On April 17, Pelkey's attorney informed Dan's City that Pelkey wanted to pay any charges owed and reclaim his vehicle. Dan's City nevertheless proceeded with the auction. Attracting no bidders, Dan's City later disposed of the car by trading it to a third party. Pelkey was not notified in advance of the trade, and has received no proceeds from the sale.     Pelkey brought suit against Dan's City in New Hampshire Superior Court. He alleged that Dan's City violated the New Hampshire Consumer Protection Act, N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §358-A:2, by failing to comply with chapter 262's requirements for disposal of stored vehicles, making false statements about the condition and value of his Honda, and proceeding with the auction despite notice that Pelkey wanted to reclaim the car.3 He also alleged that Dan's City negligently breached both statutory and common-law duties as a bailee to use reasonable care in disposing of the car. Granting summary judgment to Dan's City, the New Hampshire Superior Court concluded that Pelkey's claims were preempted by the FAAAA.     The New Hampshire Supreme Court reversed. It held the FAAAA's preemption clause, 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1), inapplicable because Pelkey's claims related to Dan's City's conduct in disposing of his Honda post-storage, not to conduct concerning "the transportation of property." 163 N. H. 483, 490-493, 44 A. 3d 480, 487-489 (2012) (emphasis deleted). Alternatively, the court ruled that, even if Pelkey's claims could be said to concern the transportation of property, they did not "sufficiently relat[e] to a towing company's 'service' to be preempted." Id., at 493, 44 A. 3d, at 490.     We granted certiorari to resolve a division of opinion in state supreme courts on whether 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1) preempts a vehicle owner's state-law claims against a towing company regarding the company's post-towing disposal of the vehicle. 568 U. S. ___ (2012). Compare 163 N. H. 483, 44 A. 3d 480 (this case), with Weatherspoon v. Tillery Body Shop, Inc., 44 So. 3d 447, 458 (Ala. 2010) (§14501(c)(1) preempts state statutory and common-law claims arising out of storage and sale of a towed vehicle).IIA     Where, as in this case, Congress has superseded state legislation by statute, our task is to "identify the domain expressly pre-empted." Lorillard Tobacco Co. v. Reilly, 533 U. S. 525, 541 (2001). To do so, we focus first on the statutory language, "which necessarily contains the best evidence of Congress' pre-emptive intent." CSX Transp., Inc. v. Easterwood, 507 U. S. 658, 664 (1993).     The FAAAA's preemption clause prohibits enforcement of state laws "related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier . . . with respect to the transportation of property." 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1). In Rowe v. New Hampshire Motor Transp. Assn., 552 U. S. 364, 370 (2008), our reading of this language was informed by decisions interpreting the parallel language in the ADA's preemption clause. The phrase "related to," we said, embraces state laws "having a connection with or reference to" carrier " 'rates, routes, or services,' " whether directly or indirectly. Ibid. (quoting Morales, 504 U. S., at 384; emphasis deleted). See also id., at 383 ("ordinary meaning of . . . words ['related to'] is a broad one," thus ADA's use of those words "expresses a broad pre-emptive purpose").     At the same time, the breadth of the words "related to" does not mean the sky is the limit. We have refused to read the preemption clause of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, 29 U. S. C. §1144(a), which supersedes state laws "relate[d] to any employee benefit plan," with an "uncritical literalism," else "for all practical purposes pre-emption would never run its course." New York State Conference of Blue Cross & Blue Shield Plans v. Travelers Ins. Co., 514 U. S. 645, 655-656 (1995) (internal quotation marks omitted). And we have cautioned that §14501(c)(1) does not preempt state laws affecting carrier prices, routes, and services "in only a 'tenuous, remote, or peripheral . . . manner.' " Rowe, 552 U. S., at 371 (quoting Morales, 504 U. S., at 390).B     The New Hampshire Supreme Court concluded that Pelkey's state-law claims are "related to" neither the "transportation of property" nor the "service" of a motor carrier. We agree.     Pelkey's claims escape preemption, we hold, because they are not "related to" the service of a motor carrier "with respect to the transportation of property." §14501(c)(1). Although §14501(c)(1) otherwise tracks the ADA's air-carrier preemption provision, see Rowe, 552 U. S., at 370, the FAAAA formulation contains one conspicuous alteration--the addition of the words "with respect to the transportation of property." That phrase "massively limits the scope of preemption" ordered by the FAAAA. Ours Garage, 536 U. S., at 449 (Scalia, J., dissenting).4 As the New Hampshire Supreme Court correctly understood, for purposes of FAAAA preemption, it is not sufficient that a state law relates to the "price, route, or service" of a motor carrier in any capacity; the law must also concern a motor carrier's "transportation of property." See 163 N. H., at 490, 44 A. 3d, at 487.     Title 49 defines "transportation," in relevant part, as "services related to th[e] movement" of property, "including arranging for, receipt, delivery, elevation, transfer in transit, refrigeration, icing, ventilation, storage, handling, packing, unpacking, and interchange of passengers and property." §13102(23)(B). Pelkey's Consumer Protection Act and negligence claims are not "related to th[e] movement" of his car. Ibid. (emphasis added). He charges Dan's City with failure to comply with chapter 262 and neglect of its statutory and common-law duties of care as a bailee of his stored vehicle. Chapter 262 does not limit when, where, or how tow trucks may be operated. The Chapter regulates, instead, the disposal of vehicles once their transportation--here, by towing--has ended. Pelkey does not object to the manner in which his car was moved or the price of the tow; he seeks redress only for conduct subsequent to "transportation," conduct occurring after the car ceased moving and was stored.     Dan's City maintains that because §13102(23)(B)'s definition of "transportation" includes "storage" and "handling," Pelkey's claims, which do concern the storage and handling of his car, fall within §14501(c)(1)'s preemptive ambit. Dan's City overlooks, however, that under §13102(23)(B), services such as "storage" and "handling" fit within the definition of "transportation" only when those services "relat[e] to th[e] movement" of property. Temporary storage of an item in transit en route to its final destination relates to the movement of property and therefore fits within §13102(23)(B)'s definition. But property stored after delivery is no longer in transit. Cf. 49 CFR §375.609 (2012) (distinguishing between "storage-in-transit" and "permanent storage" (regulation of Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration)). Here, no storage occurred in the course of transporting Pelkey's vehicle. Dan's City's storage of Pelkey's car after the towing job was done, in short, does not involve "transportation" within the meaning of the federal Act.     Pelkey's claims also survive preemption under §14501(c)(1) because they are unrelated to a "service" a motor carrier renders its customers. The transportation service Dan's City provided was the removal of Pelkey's car from his landlord's parking lot. That service, which did involve the movement of property, ended months before the conduct on which Pelkey's claims are based. His claims rely on New Hampshire's abandoned vehicle disposal regime, prescribed in chapter 262, for the rules governing Dan's City's conduct.5 Chapter 262 addresses "storage compan[ies]" and "garage owner[s] or keeper[s]," not transportation activities. See N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§262:36-a, 262:38. Unlike Maine's tobacco delivery regulations at issue in Rowe, chapter 262 has neither a direct nor an indirect connection to any transportation services a motor carrier offers its customers. See 552 U. S., at 371. We need not venture an all-purposes definition of transportation "service[s]" in order to conclude that state-law claims homing in on the disposal of stored vehicles fall outside §14501(c)(1)'s preemptive compass.     Our conclusion that state-law claims regarding disposal of towed vehicles are not preempted is in full accord with Congress' purpose in enacting §14501(c)(1). Concerned that state regulation "impeded the free flow of trade, traffic, and transportation of interstate commerce," Congress resolved to displace "certain aspects of the State regulatory process." FAAAA §601(a), 108 Stat. 1605 (emphasis added). The target at which it aimed was "a State's direct substitution of its own governmental commands for competitive market forces in determining (to a significant degree) the services that motor carriers will provide." Rowe, 552 U. S., at 372 (internal quotation marks omitted).     Pelkey's claims are far removed from Congress' driving concern. He sued under state consumer protection and tort laws to gain compensation for the alleged unlawful disposal of his vehicle. The state laws in question hardly constrain participation in interstate commerce by requiring a motor carrier to offer services not available in the market. Nor do the state laws invoked by Pelkey "freez[e] into place services that carriers might prefer to discontinue in the future." Ibid. New Hampshire's laws on disposal of stored vehicles, moreover, will not open the way for "a patchwork of state service-determining laws, rules, and regulations." Id., at 373. As Dan's City concedes, abandoned vehicle laws like chapter 262 "do not hamper the operations of tow truckers" and "are not the kind of burdensome state economic regulation Congress sought to preempt." Reply Brief 21.C     Dan's City advances two further arguments in favor of preemption. First, Dan's City contends that Congress' enumeration of exceptions to preemption, detailed in 49 U. S. C. §§14501(c)(2), (3), and (5), permits state regulation of motor carriers only when the State's law comes within a specified exception. Because Pelkey's claims do not fit within any exception to preemption, Dan's City urges, those claims must be preempted. This argument exceeds sensible bounds. Exceptions to a general rule, while sometimes a helpful interpretive guide, do not in themselves delineate the scope of the rule. The exceptions to §14501(c)(1)'s general rule of preemption identify matters a State may regulate when it would otherwise be precluded from doing so, but they do not control more than that.     An example may clarify the point. Section 14501(c) does not exempt zoning regulations. Such laws, however, "are peculiarly within the province of state and local legislative authorities." Warth v. Seldin, 422 U. S. 490, 508, n. 18 (1975). It is hardly doubtful that state or local regulation of the physical location of motor-carrier operations falls outside the preemptive sweep of §14501(c)(1). That is so because zoning ordinances ordinarily are not "related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier . . . with respect to the transportation of property." §14501(c)(1). The same is true of New Hampshire's regulation of the disposal of stored vehicles.     Dan's City, in a second argument, urges otherwise. Pelkey's claims, Dan's City maintains, are "related to" the towing service it rendered because selling Pelkey's car was the means by which Dan's City obtained payment for the tow. But if such state-law claims are preempted, no law would govern resolution of a non-contract-based dispute arising from a towing company's disposal of a vehicle previously towed or afford a remedy for wrongful disposal. Federal law does not speak to these issues.6 Thus, not only would the preemption urged by Dan's City leave vehicle owners without any recourse for damages, it would eliminate the sole legal authorization for a towing company's disposal of stored vehicles that go unclaimed. No such design can be attributed to a rational Congress. See Silkwood v. Kerr-McGee Corp., 464 U. S. 238, 251 (1984) ("It is difficult to believe that Congress would, without comment, remove all means of judicial recourse for those injured by illegal conduct.").     In sum, Dan's City cannot have it both ways. It cannot rely on New Hampshire's regulatory framework as authorization for the sale of Pelkey's car, yet argue that Pelkey's claims, invoking the same state-law regime, are preempted. New Hampshire's legislation on abandoned vehicles gave rise to Pelkey's debt and established the conditions under which Dan's City could collect on that debt by selling Pelkey's Honda. See N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§262:33, 262:36-a, 262:40-a; supra, at 3-5. Pelkey's claims, attacking Dan's City's conduct in disposing of the vehicle, rest on the very same provisions. See Brief for Petitioner 41 ("All of the alleged wrongful conduct of Dan's City was part of the state sanctioned and regulated process for disposing of abandoned vehicles under Ch. 262.").*??*??*     For the reasons stated, we hold that 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1) does not preempt state-law claims for damages stemming from the storage and disposal of a towed vehicle. The judgment of the New Hampshire Supreme Court is therefore affirmed.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESThe Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA), 21 U. S. C. §601 et seq., regulates a broad range of activities at slaughterhouses to ensure the safety of meat and the humane handling of animals. The Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), which administers the FMIA, has issued extensive regulations to govern the inspection of animals and meat, as well as other aspects of slaughterhouses' operations and facilities. See 9 CFR §300.1 et seq. The FSIS inspection procedure begins with an "ante-mortem" inspection of each animal brought to a slaughterhouse. If, at that inspection, a nonambulatory animal is found to suffer from a particularly severe disease or condition, it must be classified as "U. S. Condemned" and killed apart from the slaughtering facilities where food is produced. §§309.3, 311.1 et seq. Nonambulatory animals that are not condemned are classified as "U. S. Suspect." §309.2(b). They are set apart, specially monitored, and "slaughtered separately from other livestock." §309.2(n). Following slaughter, an inspector decides at a "post-mortem" examination which parts, if any, of the suspect animal's carcass may be processed into food for humans. See 9 CFR pts. 310, 311. FSIS regulations additionally prescribe methods for handling animals humanely at all stages of the slaughtering process, 9 CFR pt. 313, including specific provisions for the humane treatment of nonambulatory animals, 9 CFR 313.2(d).          The FMIA's preemption clause, §678, precludes states from imposing requirements that are "within the scope" of the FMIA, relate to slaughterhouse "premises, facilities and operations," and are "in addition to, or different than those made under" the FMIA. In 2008, California amended its penal code to provide that no slaughterhouse shall "buy, sell, or receive a nonambulatory animal"; "process, butcher, or sell meat or products of nonambulatory animals for human consumption"; or "hold a nonambulatory animal without taking immediate action to humanely euthanize the animal." §§599f(a)-(c). Petitioner National Meat Association (NMA), a trade association representing meatpackers and processors, sued to enjoin enforcement of §599f against swine slaughterhouses, arguing that the FMIA preempts application of the state law. The District Court agreed, and granted the NMA a preliminary injunction. The Ninth Circuit reversed, holding that §599f is not preempted because it regulates only "the kind of animal that may be slaughtered," not the inspection or slaughtering process itself.Held: The FMIA expressly preempts §599f's application against federally inspected swine slaughterhouses. Pp. 6?14.     (a) The FMIA's preemption clause sweeps widely, and so blocks the applications of §599f challenged here. The clause prevents a State from imposing any additional or different?even if nonconflicting?requirements that fall within the FMIA's scope and concern slaughterhouse facilities or operations. Section 599f imposes additional or different requirements on swine slaughterhouses: Where under federal law a slaughterhouse may take one course of action in handling a nonambulatory pig, under state law the slaughterhouse must take another. For example, when a pig becomes injured and thus nonambulatory sometime after delivery to a slaughterhouse, §599f(c) prohibits the slaughterhouse from "hold[ing]" the pig without immediately euthanizing it; and §599f(b) prohibits the slaughterhouse from "process[ing]" or "butcher[ing]" the animal to make food. By contrast, the FMIA and its regulations allow a slaughterhouse to hold (without euthanizing) any nonambulatory animal that has not been condemned, and to process and butcher such an animal's meat, subject to an FSIS official's approval at post-mortem inspection. Similarly, when a pig is nonambulatory at the time of delivery, §599f(a) prohibits a slaughterhouse from "receiv[ing]" or "buy[ing]" the pig. But the FMIA and its regulations expressly allow slaughterhouses to purchase nonambulatory pigs. See 21 U. S. C. §644; 9 CFR §325.20(c). And the FSIS inspection regime clearly contemplates that slaughterhouses will receive nonambulatory animals. So §599f substitutes a new regulatory regime for the one the FMIA prescribes.     Respondent Humane Society argues that §599f(a)'s ban on purchasing nonambulatory animals escapes preemption because it would not be preempted if applied to purchases occurring off slaughterhouse premises. But the record does not disclose whether §599f(a) ever applies beyond the slaughterhouse gate, much less how an application of that kind would affect a slaughterhouse's operations. Moreover, even if the State could regulate off-site purchases, it does not follow that on-site purchases would escape preemption, because the FMIA's preemption clause expressly focuses on slaughterhouse "premises, facilities and operations." And while the Humane Society is correct that the FMIA does not normally regulate slaughterhouse sales activities, §599f's sales ban serves to regulate how slaughterhouses must handle nonambulatory pigs on their premises. Its effect is to make sure that slaughterhouses remove nonambulatory pigs from the production process. It is therefore preempted by the FMIA. Pp. 6?10.     (b) Also rejected is the broad argument that §599f's challenged provisions fall outside the FMIA's scope because they exclude a class of animals from the slaughtering process, while the FMIA extends only to "animals that are going to be turned into meat." In fact, the FMIA regulates animals on slaughterhouse premises that will never be turned into meat. For example, the Act's implementing regulations exclude many classes of animals from the slaughtering process, e.g., swine with hog cholera, 9 CFR §309.5(a). The argument that §599f's exclusion avoids the FMIA's scope because it is designed to ensure the humane treatment of pigs, rather than meat safety, misunderstands the FMIA's scope. The FMIA addresses not just food safety, but humane treatment, as well. See, e.g., 21 U. S. C. §§603, 610(b). Pp. 11?14.599 F. 3d 1093, reversed and remanded.     Kagan, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Opinion of the Court?565 U. S. ____ (2012)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 10-224NATIONAL MEAT ASSOCIATION, PETITIONER v. KAMALA D. HARRIS, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF CALIFORNIA, et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[January 23, 2012]     Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the Court.     The Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA or Act), 21 U. S. C. §601 et seq., regulates the inspection, handling, and slaughter of livestock for human consumption. We consider here whether the FMIA expressly preempts a California law dictating what slaughterhouses must do with pigs that cannot walk, known in the trade as nonambulatory pigs. We hold that the FMIA forecloses the challenged applications of the state statute.IA     The FMIA regulates a broad range of activities at slaughterhouses to ensure both the safety of meat and the humane handling of animals.1 First enacted in 1906, after Upton Sinclair's muckraking novel The Jungle sparked an uproar over conditions in the meatpacking industry, the Act establishes "an elaborate system of inspecti[ng]" live animals and carcasses in order "to prevent the shipment of impure, unwholesome, and unfit meat and meat-food products." Pittsburgh Melting Co. v. Totten, 248 U. S. 1, 4-5 (1918). And since amended in 1978, see 92 Stat. 1069, the FMIA requires all slaughterhouses to comply with the standards for humane handling and slaughter of animals set out in the Humane Methods of Slaughter Act of 1958, (HMSA), 72 Stat. 862, 7 U. S. C. §1901 et seq., which originally applied only to slaughterhouses selling meat to the Federal Government.     The Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) has responsibility for administering the FMIA to promote its dual goals of safe meat and humane slaughter. Over the years, the FSIS has issued extensive regulations to govern the inspection of animals and meat, as well as other aspects of slaughterhouses' operations and facilities. See 9 CFR §300.1 et seq. (2011). The FSIS employs about 9,000 inspectors, veterinarians, and investigators to implement its inspection regime and enforce its humane-handling requirements. See Hearings on 2012 Appropriations before the Subcommittee on Agriculture of the House Committee on Appropriations, 112th Cong., 1st Sess., pt. 1B, p. 921 (2011). In fiscal year 2010, those personnel examined about 147 million head of livestock and carried out more than 126,000 "humane handling verification procedures." Id., at 942-943.     The FSIS's inspection procedure begins with an "ante-mortem" examination of each animal brought to a slaughterhouse. See 9 CFR §309.1. If the inspector finds no evidence of disease or injury, he approves the animal for slaughter. If, at the other end of the spectrum, the inspector sees that an animal is dead or dying, comatose, suffering from a high fever, or afflicted with a serious disease or condition, he designates the animal as "U. S. Condemned." See §309.3; §311.1 et seq. (listing diseases requiring condemnation). A condemned animal (if not already dead) must be killed apart from the slaughtering facilities where food is produced, and no part of its carcass may be sold for human consumption. See §309.13(a); 21 U. S. C. §610(c).     The inspector also has an intermediate option: If he determines that an animal has a less severe condition--or merely suspects the animal of having a disease meriting condemnation--he classifies the animal as "U. S. Suspect." See 9 CFR §309.2. That category includes all nonambulatory animals not found to require condemnation.2 See §309.2(b). Suspect livestock must be "set apart," specially monitored, and (if not reclassified because of a change in condition) "slaughtered separately from other livestock." §309.2(n). Following slaughter, an inspector decides at a "post-mortem" examination which parts, if any, of the suspect animal's carcass may be processed into food for humans. See 9 CFR pts. 310, 311.     The regulations implementing the FMIA additionally prescribe methods for handling animals humanely at all stages of the slaughtering process. Those rules apply from the moment a truck carrying livestock "enters, or is in line to enter," a slaughterhouse's premises. Humane Handling and Slaughter of Livestock, FSIS Directive 6900.2, ch. II(I) (rev. Aug. 15, 2011). And they include specific provisions for the humane treatment of animals that cannot walk. See 9 CFR §313.2(d). Under the regulations, slaughterhouse employees may not drag conscious, nonambulatory animals, see §313.2(d)(2), and may move them only with "equipment suitable for such purposes," §313.2(d)(3). Similarly, employees must place nonambulatory animals, as well as other sick and disabled livestock, in covered pens sufficient to protect the animals from "adverse climatic conditions." See §313.2(d)(1); §313.1(c).     The FMIA contains an express preemption provision, at issue here, addressing state laws on these and similar matters. That provision's first sentence reads:"Requirements within the scope of this [Act] with respect to premises, facilities and operations of any establishment at which inspection is provided under . . . this [Act] which are in addition to, or different than those made under this [Act] may not be imposed by any State." 21 U. S. C. §678.3B     In 2008, the Humane Society of the United States released an undercover video showing workers at a slaughterhouse in California dragging, kicking, and electro-shocking sick and disabled cows in an effort to move them. The video led the Federal Government to institute the largest beef recall in U. S. history in order to prevent consumption of meat from diseased animals. Of greater relevance here, the video also prompted the California legislature to strengthen a pre-existing statute governing the treatment of nonambulatory animals and to apply that statute to slaughterhouses regulated under the FMIA. See National Meat Assn. v. Brown, 599 F. 3d 1093, 1096 (CA9 2010).     As amended, the California law--§599f of the state penal code--provides in relevant part:     "(a) No slaughterhouse, stockyard, auction, market agency, or dealer shall buy, sell, or receive a nonambulatory animal.     "(b) No slaughterhouse shall process, butcher, or sell meat or products of nonambulatory animals for human consumption.     "(c) No slaughterhouse shall hold a nonambulatory animal without taking immediate action to humanely euthanize the animal." Cal. Penal Code Ann. §599f (West 2010).The maximum penalty for violating any of these prohibitions is one year in jail and a $20,000 fine. See §599f(h).     Petitioner National Meat Association (NMA) is a trade association representing meatpackers and processors, in-cluding operators of swine slaughterhouses. It sued to enjoin the enforcement of §599f against those slaughterhouses, principally on the ground that the FMIA preempts application of the state law.4 The District Court granted the NMA's motion for a preliminary injunction, reasoning that §599f is expressly preempted because it requires swine "to be handled in a manner other than that prescribed by the FMIA" and its regulations. App. to Pet. for Cert. 36a. But the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit vacated the injunction. According to that court, the FMIA does not expressly preempt §599f because the state law regulates only "the kind of animal that may be slaughtered," and not the inspection or slaughtering process itself. 599 F. 3d, at 1098.     We granted certiorari, 564 U. S. __ (2011), and now reverse.II     The FMIA's preemption clause sweeps widely--and in so doing, blocks the applications of §599f challenged here. The clause prevents a State from imposing any additional or different--even if non-conflicting--requirements that fall within the scope of the Act and concern a slaughterhouse's facilities or operations. And at every turn §599f imposes additional or different requirements on swine slaughterhouses: It compels them to deal with nonambulatory pigs on their premises in ways that the federal Act and regulations do not. In essence, California's statute substitutes a new regulatory scheme for the one the FSIS uses. Where under federal law a slaughterhouse may take one course of action in handling a nonambulatory pig, under state law the slaughterhouse must take another.     Consider first what the two statutes tell a slaughterhouse to do when (as not infrequently occurs) a pig becomes injured and thus nonambulatory sometime after delivery to the slaughterhouse.5 Section 599f(c) prohibits the slaughterhouse from "hold[ing]" such an animal "without taking immediate action to humanely euthanize" it. And §599f(b) provides that no part of the animal's carcass may be "process[ed]" or "butcher[ed]" to make food. By contrast, under the FMIA and its regulations, a slaughterhouse may hold (without euthanizing) any nonambulatory pig that has not been condemned. See supra, at 3. And the slaughterhouse may process or butcher such an animal's meat for human consumption, subject to an FSIS official's approval at a post-mortem inspection. See ibid. The State's proscriptions thus exceed the FMIA's. To be sure, nothing in the federal Act requires what the state law forbids (or forbids what the state law requires); California is right to note that "[t]he FMIA does not mandate that 'U. S. Suspect' [nonambulatory] animals . . . be placed into the human food production process." Brief for State Respondents 31. But that is irrelevant, because the FMIA's preemption clause covers not just conflicting, but also different or additional state requirements. It therefore precludes California's effort in §§599f(b) and (c) to im-pose new rules, beyond any the FSIS has chosen to adopt, on what a slaughterhouse must do with a pig that be-comes nonambulatory during the production process.     Similarly, consider how the state and federal laws address what a slaughterhouse should do when a pig is non-ambulatory at the time of delivery, usually because of harsh transportation conditions.6 Section 599f(a) of the California law bars a slaughterhouse from "receiv[ing]" or "buy[ing]" such a pig, thus obligating the slaughterhouse to refuse delivery of the animal.7 But that directive, too, deviates from any imposed by federal law. A regulation issued under the FMIA specifically authorizes slaughterhouses to buy disabled or diseased animals (including nonambulatory swine), by exempting them from a general prohibition on such purchases. See 9 CFR §325.20(c). And other regulations contemplate that slaughterhouses will in fact take, rather than refuse, receipt of nonambulatory swine. Recall that the FMIA's regulations provide for the inspection of all pigs at delivery, see supra, at 2--in the case of nonambulatory pigs, often right on the truck, see Humane Handling and Slaughter of Livestock, FSIS Directive 6900.2, ch. II(I). They further instruct slaughterhouses to kill and dispose of any nonambulatory pigs labeled "condemned," and to slaughter separately those marked "suspect." See supra, at 3. In short, federal law establishes rules for handling and slaughtering nonam-bulatory pigs brought to a slaughterhouse, rather than ordering them returned to sender. So §599f(a) and the FMIA require different things of a slaughterhouse confronted with a delivery truck containing nonambulatory swine. The former says "do not receive or buy them"; the latter does not.     The Humane Society counters that at least §599f(a)'s ban on buying nonambulatory animals escapes preemption because that provision applies no matter when or where a purchase takes place. The argument proceeds in three steps: (1) §599f(a)'s ban covers purchases of non-ambulatory pigs made prior to delivery, away from the slaughterhouse itself (say, at a farm or auction); (2) the State may regulate such offsite purchases because they do not involve a slaughterhouse's "premises, facilities and operations," which is a condition of preemption under the FMIA; and (3) no different result should obtain just because a slaughterhouse structures its swine purchases to occur at delivery, on its own property. See Brief for Non-State Respondents 43-45.     But this argument fails on two grounds. First, its preliminary steps have no foundation in the record. Until a stray comment at oral argument, see Tr. of Oral Arg. 50, neither the State nor the Humane Society had disputed the NMA's assertion that slaughterhouses buy pigs at delivery (or still later, upon successful ante-mortem inspection). See Brief for Petitioner 46, n. 18; Brief for Non-State Respondents 44; Brief for State Respondents 16, n. 5. Nor had the parties presented evidence that a significant number of pigs become nonambulatory before shipment, when any offsite purchases would occur. The record therefore does not disclose whether §599f(a)'s ban on purchase ever applies beyond the slaughterhouse gate, much less how an application of that kind would affect a slaughterhouse's operations. And because that is so, we have no basis for deciding whether the FMIA would preempt it. Second, even assuming that a State could regulate offsite purchases, the concluding step of the Humane Society's argument would not follow. The FMIA's preemption clause expressly focuses on "premises, facilities and operations"--at bottom, the slaughtering and processing of animals at a given location. So the distinction between a slaughterhouse's site-based activities and its more far-flung commercial dealings is not, as the Humane Society contends, an anomaly that courts should strain to avoid. It is instead a fundamental feature of the FMIA's preemption clause.     For that reason, the Humane Society's stronger argument concerns California's effort to regulate the last stage of a slaughterhouse's business--the ban in §599f(b) on "sell[ing] meat or products of nonambulatory animals for human consumption." The Government acknowledges that the FMIA's preemption clause does not usually foreclose "state regulation of the commercial sales activities of slaughterhouses." Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 17. And the Humane Society asserts, in line with that general rule, that §599f(b)'s ban on sales does not regulate a slaughterhouse's "operations" because it kicks in only after they have ended: Once meat from a slaughtered pig has passed a post-mortem inspection, the Act "is not concerned with whether or how it is ever actually sold." Brief for Non-State Respondents 45. At most, the Humane Society claims, §599f(b)'s ban on sales offers an "incentiv[e]" to a slaughterhouse to take nonambulatory pigs out of the meat production process. Id., at 46. And California may so "motivate[]" an operational choice without running afoul of the FMIA's preemption provision. Ibid. (quoting Bates v. Dow Agrosciences LLC, 544 U. S. 431, 443 (2005)).     But this argument mistakes how the prohibition on sales operates within §599f as a whole. The sales ban is a criminal proscription calculated to help implement and enforce each of the section's other regulations--its prohibition of receipt and purchase, its bar on butchering and processing, and its mandate of immediate euthanasia. The idea--and the inevitable effect--of the provision is to make sure that slaughterhouses remove nonambulatory pigs from the production process (or keep them out of the process from the beginning) by criminalizing the sale of their meat. That, we think, is something more than an "incentive" or "motivat[or]"; the sales ban instead functions as a command to slaughterhouses to structure their operations in the exact way the remainder of §599f mandates. And indeed, if the sales ban were to avoid the FMIA's preemption clause, then any State could impose any regulation on slaughterhouses just by framing it as a ban on the sale of meat produced in whatever way the State disapproved. That would make a mockery of the FMIA's preemption provision. Cf. Engine Mfrs. Assn. v. South Coast Air Quality Management Dist., 541 U. S. 246, 255 (2004) (stating that it "would make no sense" to allow state regulations to escape preemption because they addressed the purchase, rather than manufacture, of a federally regulated product). Like the rest of §599f, the sales ban regulates how slaughterhouses must deal with non-ambulatory pigs on their premises. The FMIA therefore preempts it for all the same reasons.III     California's and the Humane Society's broadest argument against preemption maintains that all of §599f's challenged provisions fall outside the "scope" of the FMIA because they exclude a class of animals from the slaughtering process. See 21 U. S. C. §678 (preempting certain requirements "within the scope of this [Act]"). According to this view, the Act (and the FSIS's authority under it) extends only to "animals that are going to be turned into meat," Tr. of Oral Arg. 28--or to use another phrase, animals that will "be slaughtered . . . for purposes of human food production," Brief for State Respondents 19 (emphasis deleted). Section 599f avoids the scope of the Act, respondents claim, by altogether removing nonambulatory pigs from the slaughtering process.8 The Ninth Circuit accepted this argument, analogizing §599f to state laws upheld in two other Circuits banning the slaughter of horses for human consumption. 599 F. 3d, at 1098 (discussing Cavel Int'l., Inc. v. Madigan, 500 F. 3d 551 (CA7 2007), and Empacadora de Carnes de Fresnillo, S. A. de C.V. v. Curry, 476 F. 3d 326 (CA5 2007)). According to the Court of Appeals, "states are free to decide which animals may be turned into meat." 599 F. 3d, at 1098, 1099.     We think not. The FMIA's scope includes not only "animals that are going to be turned into meat," but animals on a slaughterhouse's premises that will never suffer that fate. The Act's implementing regulations themselves exclude many classes of animals from the slaughtering process. Swine with hog cholera, for example, are disqualified, see 9 CFR §309.5(a); so too are swine and other livestock "affected with anthrax," §309.7(a). Indeed, the federal regulations prohibit the slaughter of any nonambulatory cattle for human consumption. See §309.3(e). As these examples demonstrate, one vital function of the Act and its regulations is to ensure that some kinds of livestock delivered to a slaughterhouse's gates will not be turned into meat. Under federal law, nonambulatory pigs are not among those excluded animals. But that is to say only that §599f's requirements differ from those of the FMIA--not that §599f's requirements fall outside the FMIA's scope.     Nor are respondents right to suggest that §599f's exclusion avoids the FMIA's scope because it is designed to ensure the humane treatment of pigs, rather than the safety of meat. See, e.g., Brief for State Respondents 29; Brief for Non-State Respondents 39-40. That view misunderstands the authority--and indeed responsibility--that the FMIA gives to federal officials. Since 1978, when Congress incorporated the HMSA's standards, the FMIA has required slaughterhouses to follow prescribed methods of humane handling, so as to minimize animals' pain and suffering. See 21 U. S. C. §§603(b), 610(b); supra, at 2-4. A violation of those standards is a crime, see §676, and the Secretary of Agriculture can suspend inspections at--and thus effectively shut down--a slaughterhouse that dis-obeys them, see §§603(b), 610(c). To implement the Act's humane-handling provisions, the FSIS has issued detailed regulations, see 9 CFR pt. 313, including some specifically addressing animals that cannot walk, see §§313.2(d), 313.1(c). Those rules, as earlier noted, apply throughout the time an animal is on a slaughterhouse's premises, from the moment a delivery truck pulls up to the gate. See supra, at 3-4. So the FMIA addresses not just food safety, but humane treatment as well. Even California conceded at oral argument that the FSIS could issue regulations under the FMIA, similar to §599f, mandating the euthanasia of nonambulatory swine.9 See Tr. of Oral Arg. 46-47. If that is so--and it is, because of the FSIS's authority over humane-handling methods--then §599f's requirements must fall within the FMIA's scope.     The Circuit decisions upholding state bans on slaughtering horses, on which the Ninth Circuit relied, do not demand any different conclusion. We express no view on those decisions, except to say that the laws sustained there differ from §599f in a significant respect. A ban on butchering horses for human consumption works at a remove from the sites and activities that the FMIA most directly governs. When such a ban is in effect, no horses will be delivered to, inspected at, or handled by a slaughterhouse, because no horses will be ordered for purchase in the first instance. But §599f does not and cannot work in that way. As earlier noted, many nonambulatory pigs become disabled either in transit to or after arrival at a slaughterhouse. See supra, at 6-9, and nn. 5-6. So even with §599f in effect, a swine slaughterhouse will encounter nonambulatory pigs. In that circumstance, §599f tells the slaughterhouse what to do with those animals. Unlike a horse slaughtering ban, the statute thus reaches into the slaughterhouse's facilities and affects its daily activities. And in so doing, the California law runs smack into the FMIA's regulations. So whatever might be said of other bans on slaughter, §599f imposes requirements within--and indeed at the very heart of--the FMIA's scope.10IV     The FMIA regulates slaughterhouses' handling and treatment of nonambulatory pigs from the moment of their delivery through the end of the meat production process. California's §599f endeavors to regulate the same thing, at the same time, in the same place--except by imposing different requirements. The FMIA expressly preempts such a state law. Accordingly, we reverse the judgment of the Ninth Circuit, and remand this case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESRespondents, representing the video-game and software industries, filed a preenforcement challenge to a California law that restricts the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. The Federal District Court concluded that the Act violated the First Amendment and permanently enjoined its enforcement. The Ninth Circuit affirmed.Held: The Act does not comport with the First Amendment. Pp. 2-18.     (a) Video games qualify for First Amendment protection. Like protected books, plays, and movies, they communicate ideas through familiar literary devices and features distinctive to the medium. And "the basic principles of freedom of speech ... do not vary" with a new and different communication medium. Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson, 343 U. S. 495, 503. The most basic principle--that government lacks the power to restrict expression because of its message, ideas, subject matter, or content, Ashcroft v. American Civil Liberties Union, 535 U. S. 564, 573--is subject to a few limited exceptions for historically unprotected speech, such as obscenity, incitement, and fighting words. But a legislature cannot create new categories of unprotected speech simply by weighing the value of a particular category against its social costs and then punishing it if it fails the test. See United States v. Stevens, 559 U. S. ___, ___. Unlike the New York law upheld in Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U. S. 629, California's Act does not adjust the boundaries of an existing category of unprotected speech to ensure that a definition designed for adults is not uncritically applied to children. Instead, the State wishes to create a wholly new category of content-based regulation that is permissible only for speech directed at children. That is unprecedented and mistaken. This country has no tradition of specially restricting children's access to depictions of violence. And California's claim that "interactive" video games present special problems, in that the player participates in the violent action on screen and determines its outcome, is unpersuasive. Pp. 2-11.     (b) Because the Act imposes a restriction on the content of protected speech, it is invalid unless California can demonstrate that it passes strict scrutiny, i.e., it is justified by a compelling government interest and is narrowly drawn to serve that interest. R. A. V. v. St. Paul, 505 U. S. 377, 395. California cannot meet that standard. Psychological studies purporting to show a connection between exposure to violent video games and harmful effects on children do not prove that such exposure causes minors to act aggressively. Any demonstrated effects are both small and indistinguishable from effects produced by other media. Since California has declined to restrict those other media, e.g., Saturday morning cartoons, its video-game regulation is wildly underinclusive, raising serious doubts about whether the State is pursuing the interest it invokes or is instead disfavoring a particular speaker or viewpoint. California also cannot show that the Act's restrictions meet the alleged substantial need of parents who wish to restrict their children's access to violent videos. The video-game industry's voluntary rating system already accomplishes that to a large extent. Moreover, as a means of assisting parents the Act is greatly overinclusive, since not all of the children who are prohibited from purchasing violent video games have parents who disapprove of their doing so. The Act cannot satisfy strict scrutiny. Pp. 11-18.556 F. 3d 950, affirmed.     Scalia, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Kennedy, Ginsburg, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined. Alito, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which Roberts, C. J., joined. Thomas, J., and Breyer, J., filed dissenting opinions.EDMUND G. BROWN, Jr., GOVERNOR OF CAL- IFORNIA, et al., PETITIONERS v. ENTERTAIN- MENT MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[June 27, 2011]     Justice Scalia delivered the opinion of the Court.     We consider whether a California law imposing restrictions on violent video games comports with the First Amendment.I     California Assembly Bill 1179 (2005), Cal. Civ. Code Ann. §§1746-1746.5 (West 2009) (Act), prohibits the sale or rental of "violent video games" to minors, and requires their packaging to be labeled "18." The Act covers games "in which the range of options available to a player includes killing, maiming, dismembering, or sexually assaulting an image of a human being, if those acts are depicted" in a manner that "[a] reasonable person, considering the game as a whole, would find appeals to a deviant or morbid interest of minors," that is "patently offensive to prevailing standards in the community as to what is suitable for minors," and that "causes the game, as a whole, to lack serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value for minors." §1746(d)(1)(A). Violation of the Act is punishable by a civil fine of up to $1,000. §1746.3.     Respondents, representing the video-game and software industries, brought a preenforcement challenge to the Act in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. That court concluded that the Act violated the First Amendment and permanently enjoined its enforcement. Video Software Dealers Assn. v. Schwarzenegger, No. C-05-04188 RMW (2007), App. to Pet. for Cert. 39a. The Court of Appeals affirmed, Video Software Dealers Assn. v. Schwarzenegger, 556 F. 3d 950 (CA9 2009), and we granted certiorari, 559 U. S. ____ (2010).II     California correctly acknowledges that video games qualify for First Amendment protection. The Free Speech Clause exists principally to protect discourse on public matters, but we have long recognized that it is difficult to distinguish politics from entertainment, and dangerous to try. "Everyone is familiar with instances of propaganda through fiction. What is one man's amusement, teaches another's doctrine." Winters v. New York, 333 U. S. 507, 510 (1948). Like the protected books, plays, and movies that preceded them, video games communicate ideas--and even social messages--through many familiar literary devices (such as characters, dialogue, plot, and music) and through features distinctive to the medium (such as the player's interaction with the virtual world). That suffices to confer First Amendment protection. Under our Constitution, "esthetic and moral judgments about art and literature ... are for the individual to make, not for the Government to decree, even with the mandate or approval of a majority." United States v. Playboy Entertainment Group, Inc., 529 U. S. 803, 818 (2000). And whatever the challenges of applying the Constitution to ever-advancing technology, "the basic principles of freedom of speech and the press, like the First Amendment's command, do not vary" when a new and different medium for communication appears. Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson, 343 U. S. 495, 503 (1952).     The most basic of those principles is this: "[A]s a general matter, ... government has no power to restrict expression because of its message, its ideas, its subject matter, or its content." Ashcroft v. American Civil Liberties Union, 535 U. S. 564, 573 (2002) (internal quotation marks omitted). There are of course exceptions. " 'From 1791 to the present,' ... the First Amendment has 'permitted restrictions upon the content of speech in a few limited areas,' and has never 'include[d] a freedom to disregard these traditional limitations.' " United States v. Stevens, 559 U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (slip op., at 5) (quoting R. A. V. v. St. Paul, 505 U. S. 377, 382-383 (1992)). These limited areas--such as obscenity, Roth v. United States, 354 U. S. 476, 483 (1957), incitement, Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 U. S. 444, 447-449 (1969) (per curiam), and fighting words, Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568, 572 (1942)--represent "well-defined and narrowly limited classes of speech, the prevention and punishment of which have never been thought to raise any Constitutional problem," id., at 571-572.     Last Term, in Stevens, we held that new categories of unprotected speech may not be added to the list by a legislature that concludes certain speech is too harmful to be tolerated. Stevens concerned a federal statute purporting to criminalize the creation, sale, or possession of certain depictions of animal cruelty. See 18 U. S. C. §48 (amended 2010). The statute covered depictions "in which a living animal is intentionally maimed, mutilated, tortured, wounded, or killed" if that harm to the animal was illegal where the "the creation, sale, or possession t[ook] place," §48(c)(1). A saving clause largely borrowed from our obscenity jurisprudence, see Miller v. California, 413 U. S. 15, 24 (1973), exempted depictions with "serious religious, political, scientific, educational, journalistic, historical, or artistic value," §48(b). We held that statute to be an impermissible content-based restriction on speech. There was no American tradition of forbidding the depiction of animal cruelty--though States have long had laws against committing it.     The Government argued in Stevens that lack of a historical warrant did not matter; that it could create new categories of unprotected speech by applying a "simple balancing test" that weighs the value of a particular category of speech against its social costs and then punishes that category of speech if it fails the test. Stevens, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7). We emphatically rejected that "startling and dangerous" proposition. Ibid. "Maybe there are some categories of speech that have been historically unprotected, but have not yet been specifically identified or discussed as such in our case law." Id., at ___ (slip op., at 9). But without persuasive evidence that a novel restriction on content is part of a long (if heretofore unrecognized) tradition of proscription, a legislature may not revise the "judgment [of] the American people," embodied in the First Amendment, "that the benefits of its restrictions on the Government outweigh the costs." Id., at ___ (slip op., at 7).     That holding controls this case.1 As in Stevens, California has tried to make violent-speech regulation look like obscenity regulation by appending a saving clause required for the latter. That does not suffice. Our cases have been clear that the obscenity exception to the First Amendment does not cover whatever a legislature finds shocking, but only depictions of "sexual conduct," Miller, supra, at 24. See also Cohen v. California, 403 U. S. 15, 20 (1971); Roth, supra, at 487, and n. 20.     Stevens was not the first time we have encountered and rejected a State's attempt to shoehorn speech about violence into obscenity. In Winters, we considered a New York criminal statute "forbid[ding] the massing of stories of bloodshed and lust in such a way as to incite to crime against the person," 333 U. S., at 514. The New York Court of Appeals upheld the provision as a law against obscenity. "[T]here can be no more precise test of written indecency or obscenity," it said, "than the continuing and changeable experience of the community as to what types of books are likely to bring about the corruption of public morals or other analogous injury to the public order. " Id., at 514 (internal quotation marks omitted). That is of course the same expansive view of governmental power to abridge the freedom of speech based on interest-balancing that we rejected in Stevens. Our opinion in Winters, which concluded that the New York statute failed a heightened vagueness standard applicable to restrictions upon speech entitled to First Amendment protection, 333 U. S., at 517-519, made clear that violence is not part of the obscenity that the Constitution permits to be regulated. The speech reached by the statute contained "no indecency or obscenity in any sense heretofore known to the law." Id., at 519.     Because speech about violence is not obscene, it is of no consequence that California's statute mimics the New York statute regulating obscenity-for-minors that we upheld in Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U. S. 629 (1968). That case approved a prohibition on the sale to minors of sexual material that would be obscene from the perspective of a child.2 We held that the legislature could "adjus[t] the definition of obscenity 'to social realities by permitting the appeal of this type of material to be assessed in terms of the sexual interests ...' of ... minors. " Id., at 638 (quoting Mishkin v. New York, 383 U. S. 502, 509 (1966)). And because "obscenity is not protected expression," the New York statute could be sustained so long as the legislature's judgment that the proscribed materials were harmful to children "was not irrational." 390 U. S., at 641.     The California Act is something else entirely. It does not adjust the boundaries of an existing category of unprotected speech to ensure that a definition designed for adults is not uncritically applied to children. California does not argue that it is empowered to prohibit selling offensively violent works to adults--and it is wise not to, since that is but a hair's breadth from the argument rejected in Stevens. Instead, it wishes to create a wholly new category of content-based regulation that is permissible only for speech directed at children.     That is unprecedented and mistaken. "[M]inors are entitled to a significant measure of First Amendment protection, and only in relatively narrow and well-defined circumstances may government bar public dissemination of protected materials to them." Erznoznik v. Jacksonville, 422 U. S. 205, 212-213 (1975) (citation omitted). No doubt a State possesses legitimate power to protect children from harm, Ginsberg, supra, at 640-641; Prince v. Massachusetts, 321 U. S. 158, 165 (1944), but that does not include a free-floating power to restrict the ideas to which children may be exposed. "Speech that is neither obscene as to youths nor subject to some other legitimate proscription cannot be suppressed solely to protect the young from ideas or images that a legislative body thinks unsuitable for them." Erznoznik, supra, at 213-214.3     California's argument would fare better if there were a longstanding tradition in this country of specially restricting children's access to depictions of violence, but there is none. Certainly the books we give children to read--or read to them when they are younger--contain no shortage of gore. Grimm's Fairy Tales, for example, are grim indeed. As her just deserts for trying to poison Snow White, the wicked queen is made to dance in red hot slippers "till she fell dead on the floor, a sad example of envy and jealousy." The Complete Brothers Grimm Fairy Tales 198 (2006 ed.). Cinderella's evil stepsisters have their eyes pecked out by doves. Id., at 95. And Hansel and Gretel (children!) kill their captor by baking her in an oven. Id., at 54.     High-school reading lists are full of similar fare. Homer's Odysseus blinds Polyphemus the Cyclops by grinding out his eye with a heated stake. The Odyssey of Homer, Book IX, p. 125 (S. Butcher & A. Lang transls. 1909) ("Even so did we seize the fiery-pointed brand and whirled it round in his eye, and the blood flowed about the heated bar. And the breath of the flame singed his eyelids and brows all about, as the ball of the eye burnt away, and the roots thereof crackled in the flame"). In the Inferno, Dante and Virgil watch corrupt politicians struggle to stay submerged beneath a lake of boiling pitch, lest they be skewered by devils above the surface. Canto XXI, pp. 187-189 (A. Mandelbaum transl. Bantam Classic ed. 1982). And Golding's Lord of the Flies recounts how a schoolboy called Piggy is savagely murdered by other children while marooned on an island. W. Golding, Lord of the Flies 208-209 (1997 ed.).4     This is not to say that minors' consumption of violent entertainment has never encountered resistance. In the 1800's, dime novels depicting crime and "penny dreadfuls" (named for their price and content) were blamed in some quarters for juvenile delinquency. See Brief for Cato Institute as Amicus Curiae 6-7. When motion pictures came along, they became the villains instead. "The days when the police looked upon dime novels as the most dangerous of textbooks in the school for crime are drawing to a close... . They say that the moving picture machine ... tends even more than did the dime novel to turn the thoughts of the easily influenced to paths which sometimes lead to prison." Moving Pictures as Helps to Crime, N. Y. Times, Feb. 21, 1909, quoted in Brief for Cato Institute, at 8. For a time, our Court did permit broad censorship of movies because of their capacity to be "used for evil," see Mutual Film Corp. v. Industrial Comm'n of Ohio, 236 U. S. 230, 242 (1915), but we eventually reversed course, Joseph Burstyn, Inc., 343 U. S., at 502; see also Erznoznik, supra, at 212-214 (invalidating a drive-in movies restriction designed to protect children). Radio dramas were next, and then came comic books. Brief for Cato Institute, at 10-11. Many in the late 1940's and early 1950's blamed comic books for fostering a "preoccupation with violence and horror" among the young, leading to a rising juvenile crime rate. See Note, Regulation of Comic Books, 68 Harv. L. Rev. 489, 490 (1955). But efforts to convince Congress to restrict comic books failed. Brief for Comic Book Legal Defense Fund as Amicus Curiae 11-15.5 And, of course, after comic books came television and music lyrics.     California claims that video games present special problems because they are "interactive," in that the player participates in the violent action on screen and determines its outcome. The latter feature is nothing new: Since at least the publication of The Adventures of You: Sugarcane Island in 1969, young readers of choose-your-own-adventure stories have been able to make decisions that determine the plot by following instructions about which page to turn to. Cf. Interactive Digital Software Assn. v. St. Louis County, 329 F. 3d 954, 957-958 (CA8 2003). As for the argument that video games enable participation in the violent action, that seems to us more a matter of degree than of kind. As Judge Posner has observed, all literature is interactive. "[T]he better it is, the more interactive. Literature when it is successful draws the reader into the story, makes him identify with the characters, invites him to judge them and quarrel with them, to experience their joys and sufferings as the reader's own." American Amusement Machine Assn. v. Kendrick, 244 F. 3d 572, 577 (CA7 2001) (striking down a similar restriction on violent video games).     Justice Alito has done considerable independent re-search to identify, see post, at 14-15, nn. 13-18, video games in which "the violence is astounding," post, at 14. "Victims are dismembered, decapitated, disemboweled, set on fire, and chopped into little pieces. . . . Blood gushes, splatters, and pools." Ibid. Justice Alito recounts all these disgusting video games in order to disgust us--but disgust is not a valid basis for restricting expression. And the same is true of Justice Alito's description, post, at 14-15, of those video games he has discovered that have a racial or ethnic motive for their violence--" 'ethnic cleansing' [of] . . . African Americans, Latinos, or Jews." To what end does he relate this? Does it somehow increase the "aggressiveness" that California wishes to suppress? Who knows? But it does arouse the reader's ire, and the reader's desire to put an end to this horrible message. Thus, ironically, Justice Alito's argument highlights the precise danger posed by the California Act: that the ideas expressed by speech--whether it be violence, or gore, or racism--and not its objective effects, may be the real reason for governmental proscription.III     Because the Act imposes a restriction on the content of protected speech, it is invalid unless California can demonstrate that it passes strict scrutiny--that is, unless it is justified by a compelling government interest and is narrowly drawn to serve that interest. R. A. V., 505 U. S., at 395. The State must specifically identify an "actual problem" in need of solving, Playboy, 529 U. S., at 822-823, and the curtailment of free speech must be actually necessary to the solution, see R. A. V., supra, at 395. That is a demanding standard. "It is rare that a regulation restricting speech because of its content will ever be permissible." Playboy, supra, at 818.     California cannot meet that standard. At the outset, it acknowledges that it cannot show a direct causal link between violent video games and harm to minors. Rather, relying upon our decision in Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, 512 U. S. 622 (1994), the State claims that it need not produce such proof because the legislature can make a predictive judgment that such a link exists, based on competing psychological studies. But reliance on Turner Broadcasting is misplaced. That decision applied intermediate scrutiny to a content-neutral regulation. Id., at 661-662. California's burden is much higher, and because it bears the risk of uncertainty, see Playboy, supra, at 816-817, ambiguous proof will not suffice.     The State's evidence is not compelling. California relies primarily on the research of Dr. Craig Anderson and a few other research psychologists whose studies purport to show a connection between exposure to violent video games and harmful effects on children. These studies have been rejected by every court to consider them,6 and with good reason: They do not prove that violent video games cause minors to act aggressively (which would at least be a beginning). Instead, "[n]early all of the research is based on correlation, not evidence of causation, and most of the studies suffer from significant, admitted flaws in methodology." Video Software Dealers Assn. 556 F. 3d, at 964. They show at best some correlation between exposure to violent entertainment and minuscule real-world effects, such as children's feeling more aggressive or making louder noises in the few minutes after playing a violent game than after playing a nonviolent game.7     Even taking for granted Dr. Anderson's conclusions that violent video games produce some effect on children's feelings of aggression, those effects are both small and indistinguishable from effects produced by other media. In his testimony in a similar lawsuit, Dr. Anderson admitted that the "effect sizes" of children's exposure to violent video games are "about the same" as that produced by their exposure to violence on television. App. 1263. And he admits that the same effects have been found when children watch cartoons starring Bugs Bunny or the Road Runner, id., at 1304, or when they play video games like Sonic the Hedgehog that are rated "E" (appropriate for all ages), id., at 1270, or even when they "vie[w] a picture of a gun," id., at 1315-1316.8     Of course, California has (wisely) declined to restrict Saturday morning cartoons, the sale of games rated for young children, or the distribution of pictures of guns. The consequence is that its regulation is wildly underinclusive when judged against its asserted justification, which in our view is alone enough to defeat it. Underinclusiveness raises serious doubts about whether the government is in fact pursuing the interest it invokes, rather than disfavoring a particular speaker or viewpoint. See City of Ladue v. Gilleo, 512 U. S. 43, 51 (1994); Florida Star v. B. J. F., 491 U. S. 524, 540 (1989). Here, California has singled out the purveyors of video games for disfavored treatment--at least when compared to booksellers, cartoonists, and movie producers--and has given no persuasive reason why.     The Act is also seriously underinclusive in another respect--and a respect that renders irrelevant the contentions of the concurrence and the dissents that video games are qualitatively different from other portrayals of violence. The California Legislature is perfectly willing to leave this dangerous, mind-altering material in the hands of children so long as one parent (or even an aunt or uncle) says it's OK. And there are not even any requirements as to how this parental or avuncular relationship is to be verified; apparently the child's or putative parent's, aunt's, or uncle's say-so suffices. That is not how one addresses a serious social problem.     California claims that the Act is justified in aid of parental authority: By requiring that the purchase of violent video games can be made only by adults, the Act ensures that parents can decide what games are appropriate. At the outset, we note our doubts that punishing third parties for conveying protected speech to children just in case their parents disapprove of that speech is a proper governmental means of aiding parental authority. Accepting that position would largely vitiate the rule that "only in relatively narrow and well-defined circumstances may government bar public dissemination of protected materials to [minors]." Erznoznik, 422 U. S., at 212-213.     But leaving that aside, California cannot show that the Act's restrictions meet a substantial need of parents who wish to restrict their children's access to violent video games but cannot do so. The video-game industry has in place a voluntary rating system designed to inform consumers about the content of games. The system, implemented by the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB), assigns age-specific ratings to each video game submitted: EC (Early Childhood); E (Everyone); E10+ (Everyone 10 and older); T (Teens); M (17 and older); and AO (Adults Only--18 and older). App. 86. The Video Software Dealers Association encourages retailers to prominently display information about the ESRB system in their stores; to refrain from renting or selling adults-only games to minors; and to rent or sell "M" rated games to minors only with parental consent. Id., at 47. In 2009, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) found that, as a result of this system, "the video game industry outpaces the movie and music industries" in "(1) restricting target-marketing of mature-rated products to children; (2) clearly and prominently disclosing rating information; and (3) re-stricting children's access to mature-rated products at retail." FTC, Report to Congress, Marketing Violent Entertainment to Children 30 (Dec. 2009), online at http:// www.ftc.gov / os/ 2009 / 12/ P994511violententertainment.pdf (as visited June 24, 2011, and available in Clerk of Court's case file) (FTC Report). This system does much to ensure that minors cannot purchase seriously violent games on their own, and that parents who care about the matter can readily evaluate the games their children bring home. Filling the remaining modest gap in concerned-parents' control can hardly be a compelling state interest.9     And finally, the Act's purported aid to parental authority is vastly overinclusive. Not all of the children who are forbidden to purchase violent video games on their own have parents who care whether they purchase violent video games. While some of the legislation's effect may indeed be in support of what some parents of the restricted children actually want, its entire effect is only in support of what the State thinks parents ought to want. This is not the narrow tailoring to "assisting parents" that restriction of First Amendment rights requires.*??*??*     California's effort to regulate violent video games is the latest episode in a long series of failed attempts to censor violent entertainment for minors. While we have pointed out above that some of the evidence brought forward to support the harmfulness of video games is unpersuasive, we do not mean to demean or disparage the concerns that underlie the attempt to regulate them--concerns that may and doubtless do prompt a good deal of parental oversight. We have no business passing judgment on the view of the California Legislature that violent video games (or, for that matter, any other forms of speech) corrupt the young or harm their moral development. Our task is only to say whether or not such works constitute a "well-defined and narrowly limited clas[s] of speech, the prevention and punishment of which have never been thought to raise any Constitutional problem," Chaplinsky, 315 U. S., at 571-572 (the answer plainly is no); and if not, whether the regulation of such works is justified by that high degree of necessity we have described as a compelling state interest (it is not). Even where the protection of children is the object, the constitutional limits on governmental action apply.     California's legislation straddles the fence between (1) addressing a serious social problem and (2) helping concerned parents control their children. Both ends are legitimate, but when they affect First Amendment rights they must be pursued by means that are neither seriously underinclusive nor seriously overinclusive. See Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah, 508 U. S. 520, 546 (1993). As a means of protecting children from portrayals of violence, the legislation is seriously underinclusive, not only because it excludes portrayals other than video games, but also because it permits a parental or avuncular veto. And as a means of assisting concerned parents it is seriously overinclusive because it abridges the First Amendment rights of young people whose parents (and aunts and uncles) think violent video games are a harmless pastime. And the overbreadth in achieving one goal is not cured by the underbreadth in achieving the other. Legislation such as this, which is neither fish nor fowl, cannot survive strict scrutiny.     We affirm the judgment below.It is so ordered.EDMUND G. BROWN, Jr., GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA, et al., PETITIONERS v. ENTERTAINMENT MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[June 27, 2011]     Justice Alito, with whom The Chief Justice joins, concurring in the judgment.     The California statute that is before us in this case represents a pioneering effort to address what the state legislature and others regard as a potentially serious social problem: the effect of exceptionally violent video games on impressionable minors, who often spend countless hours immersed in the alternative worlds that these games create. Although the California statute is well intentioned, its terms are not framed with the precision that the Constitution demands, and I therefore agree with the Court that this particular law cannot be sustained.     I disagree, however, with the approach taken in the Court's opinion. In considering the application of unchanging constitutional principles to new and rapidly evolving technology, this Court should proceed with caution. We should make every effort to understand the new technology. We should take into account the possibility that developing technology may have important societal implications that will become apparent only with time. We should not jump to the conclusion that new technology is fundamentally the same as some older thing with which we are familiar. And we should not hastily dismiss the judgment of legislators, who may be in a better position than we are to assess the implications of new technology. The opinion of the Court exhibits none of this caution.     In the view of the Court, all those concerned about the effects of violent video games--federal and state legislators, educators, social scientists, and parents--are unduly fearful, for violent video games really present no serious problem. See ante, at 10-13, 15-16. Spending hour upon hour controlling the actions of a character who guns down scores of innocent victims is not different in "kind" from reading a description of violence in a work of literature. See ante, at 10-11.     The Court is sure of this; I am not. There are reasons to suspect that the experience of playing violent video games just might be very different from reading a book, listening to the radio, or watching a movie or a television show.I     Respondents in this case, representing the video-game industry, ask us to strike down the California law on two grounds: The broad ground adopted by the Court and the narrower ground that the law's definition of "violent video game," see Cal. Civ. Code Ann. §1746(d)(1)(A) (West 2009), is impermissibly vague. See Brief for Respondents 23-61. Because I agree with the latter argument, I see no need to reach the broader First Amendment issues addressed by the Court.1A     Due process requires that laws give people of ordinary intelligence fair notice of what is prohibited. Grayned v. City of Rockford, 408 U. S. 104, 108 (1972). The lack of such notice in a law that regulates expression "raises special First Amendment concerns because of its obvious chilling effect on free speech." Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union, 521 U. S. 844, 871-872 (1997). Vague laws force potential speakers to " 'steer far wider of the unlawful zone' ... than if the boundaries of the forbidden areas were clearly marked." Baggett v. Bullitt, 377 U. S. 360, 372 (1964) (quoting Speiser v. Randall, 357 U. S. 513, 526 (1958)). While "perfect clarity and precise guidance have never been required even of regulations that restrict expressive activity," Ward v. Rock Against Racism, 491 U. S. 781, 794 (1989), "government may regulate in the area" of First Amendment freedoms "only with narrow specificity," NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415, 433 (1963); see also Hoffman Estates v. Flipside, Hoffman Estates, Inc., 455 U. S. 489, 499 (1982). These principles apply to laws that regulate expression for the purpose of protecting children. See Interstate Circuit, Inc. v. Dallas, 390 U. S. 676, 689 (1968).     Here, the California law does not define "violent video games" with the "narrow specificity" that the Constitution demands. In an effort to avoid First Amendment problems, the California Legislature modeled its violent video game statute on the New York law that this Court upheld in Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U. S. 629 (1968)--a law that prohibited the sale of certain sexually related materials to minors, see id., at 631-633. But the California Legislature departed from the Ginsberg model in an important respect, and the legislature overlooked important differences between the materials falling within the scope of the two statutes.B     The law at issue in Ginsberg prohibited the sale to minors of materials that were deemed "harmful to minors," and the law defined "harmful to minors" simply by adding the words "for minors" to each element of the definition of obscenity set out in what were then the Court's leading obscenity decisions, see Roth v. United States, 354 U. S. 476 (1957), and Book Named "John Cleland's Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure" v. Attorney General of Mass., 383 U. S. 413 (1966).     Seeking to bring its violent video game law within the protection of Ginsberg, the California Legislature began with the obscenity test adopted in Miller v. California, 413 U. S. 15 (1973), a decision that revised the obscenity tests previously set out in Roth and Memoirs. The legislature then made certain modifications to accommodate the aim of the violent video game law.     Under Miller, an obscenity statute must contain a thresh-old limitation that restricts the statute's scope to specifically described "hard core" materials. See 413 U. S., at 23-25, 27. Materials that fall within this "hard core" category may be deemed to be obscene if three additional requirements are met:(1) an "average person, applying contemporary community standards [must] find ... the work, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest";(2) "the work [must] depic[t] or describ[e], in a patently offensive way, sexual conduct specifically defined by the applicable state law; and"(3) "the work, taken as a whole, [must] lac[k] serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value." Id., at 24 (internal quotation marks omitted).     Adapting these standards, the California law imposes the following threshold limitation: "[T]he range of options available to a player [must] includ[e] killing, maiming, dismembering, or sexually assaulting an image of a human being." §1746(d)(1). Any video game that meets this threshold test is subject to the law's restrictions if it also satisfies three further requirements:     "(i) A reasonable person, considering the game as a whole, would find [the game] appeals to a deviant or morbid interest of minors.     "(ii) It is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the community as to what is suitable for minors.     "(iii) It causes the game, as a whole, to lack serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value for minors." §1746(d)(1)(A).2C     The first important difference between the Ginsberg law and the California violent video game statute concerns their respective threshold requirements. As noted, the Ginsberg law built upon the test for adult obscenity, and the current adult obscenity test, which was set out in Miller, requires an obscenity statute to contain a threshold limitation that restricts the statute's coverage to specifically defined "hard core" depictions. See 413 U. S., at 23-25, 27. The Miller Court gave as an example a statute that applies to only "[p]atently offensive representations or descriptions of ultimate sexual acts," "masturbation, excretory functions, and lewd exhibition of the genitals." Id., at 25. The Miller Court clearly viewed this threshold limitation as serving a vital notice function. "We are satisfied," the Court wrote, "that these specific prerequisites will provide fair notice to a dealer in such materials that his public and commercial activities may bring prosecution." Id., at 27; see also Reno, supra, at 873 (observing that Miller's threshold limitation "reduces the vagueness inherent in the open-ended term 'patently offensive' ").3     By contrast, the threshold requirement of the California law does not perform the narrowing function served by the limitation in Miller. At least when Miller was decided, depictions of "hard core" sexual conduct were not a common feature of mainstream entertainment. But nothing similar can be said about much of the conduct covered by the California law. It provides that a video game cannot qualify as "violent" unless "the range of options available to a player includes killing, maiming, dismembering, or sexually assaulting an image of a human being." §1746(d)(1).     For better or worse, our society has long regarded many depictions of killing and maiming4 as suitable features of popular entertainment, including entertainment that is widely available to minors. The California law's threshold requirement would more closely resemble the limitation in Miller if it targeted a narrower class of graphic depictions.     Because of this feature of the California law's threshold test, the work of providing fair notice is left in large part to the three requirements that follow, but those elements are also not up to the task. In drafting the violent video game law, the California Legislature could have made its own judgment regarding the kind and degree of violence that is acceptable in games played by minors (or by minors in particular age groups). Instead, the legislature relied on undefined societal or community standards.     One of the three elements at issue here refers expressly to "prevailing standards in the community as to what is suitable for minors." §1746(d)(1)(A)(ii). Another element points in the same direction, asking whether "[a] reasonable person, considering [a] game as a whole," would find that it "appeals to a deviant or morbid interest of minors." §1746(d)(1)(A)(i) (emphasis added).     The terms "deviant" and "morbid" are not defined in the statute, and California offers no reason to think that its courts would give the terms anything other than their ordinary meaning. See Reply Brief for Petitioners 5 (arguing that "[a] reasonable person can make this judgment through ... a common understanding and definition of the applicable terms"). I therefore assume that "deviant" and "morbid" carry the meaning that they convey in ordinary speech. The adjective "deviant" ordinarily means "deviating ... from some accepted norm," and the term "morbid" means "of, relating to, or characteristic of disease." Webster's 618, 1469. A "deviant or morbid interest" in violence, therefore, appears to be an interest that deviates from what is regarded--presumably in accordance with some generally accepted standard--as normal and healthy. Thus, the application of the California law is heavily dependent on the identification of generally accepted standards regarding the suitability of violent entertainment for minors.     The California Legislature seems to have assumed that these standards are sufficiently well known so that a person of ordinary intelligence would have fair notice as to whether the kind and degree of violence in a particular game is enough to qualify the game as "violent." And because the Miller test looks to community standards, the legislature may have thought that the use of undefined community standards in the violent video game law would not present vagueness problems.     There is a critical difference, however, between obscenity laws and laws regulating violence in entertainment. By the time of this Court's landmark obscenity cases in the 1960's, obscenity had long been prohibited, see Roth, 354 U. S., at 484-485, and this experience had helped to shape certain generally accepted norms concerning expression related to sex.     There is no similar history regarding expression related to violence. As the Court notes, classic literature contains descriptions of great violence, and even children's stories sometimes depict very violent scenes. See ante, at 8-9.     Although our society does not generally regard all depictions of violence as suitable for children or adolescents, the prevalence of violent depictions in children's literature and entertainment creates numerous opportunities for reasonable people to disagree about which depictions may excite "deviant" or "morbid" impulses. See Edwards & Berman, Regulating Violence on Television, 89 Nw. U. L. Rev. 1487, 1523 (1995) (observing that the Miller test would be difficult to apply to violent expression because "there is nothing even approaching a consensus on low-value violence").     Finally, the difficulty of ascertaining the community standards incorporated into the California law is compounded by the legislature's decision to lump all minors together. The California law draws no distinction between young children and adolescents who are nearing the age of majority.     In response to a question at oral argument, the attorney defending the constitutionality of the California law said that the State would accept a narrowing construction of the law under which the law's references to "minors" would be interpreted to refer to the oldest minors--that is, those just short of 18. Tr. of Oral Arg. 11-12. However, "it is not within our power to construe and narrow state laws." Grayned, 408 U. S., at 110. We can only " 'extrapolate [their] allowable meaning' " from the statutory text and authoritative interpretations of similar laws by courts of the State. Ibid. (quoting Garner v. Louisiana, 368 U. S. 157, 174 (1961) (Frankfurter, J., concurring in judgment)).     In this case, California has not provided any evidence that the California Legislature intended the law to be limited in this way, or cited any decisions from its courts that would support an "oldest minors" construction.5     For these reasons, I conclude that the California violent video game law fails to provide the fair notice that the Constitution requires. And I would go no further. I would not express any view on whether a properly drawn statute would or would not survive First Amendment scrutiny. We should address that question only if and when it is necessary to do so.II     Having outlined how I would decide this case, I will now briefly elaborate on my reasons for questioning the wisdom of the Court's approach. Some of these reasons are touched upon by the dissents, and while I am not prepared at this time to go as far as either Justice Thomas or Justice Breyer, they raise valid concerns.A     The Court is wrong in saying that the holding in United States v. Stevens, 559 U. S. ___ (2010), "controls this case." Ante, at 4. First, the statute in Stevens differed sharply from the statute at issue here. Stevens struck down a law that broadly prohibited any person from creating, selling, or possessing depictions of animal cruelty for commercial gain. The California law involved here, by contrast, is limited to the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. The California law imposes no restriction on the creation of violent video games, or on the possession of such games by anyone, whether above or below the age of 18. The California law does not regulate the sale or rental of violent games by adults. And the California law does not prevent parents and certain other close relatives from buying or renting violent games for their children or other young relatives if they see fit.     Second, Stevens does not support the proposition that a law like the one at issue must satisfy strict scrutiny. The portion of Stevens on which the Court relies rejected the Government's contention that depictions of animal cruelty were categorically outside the range of any First Amendment protection. 559 U. S., at __ (slip op., at 5). Going well beyond Stevens, the Court now holds that any law that attempts to prevent minors from purchasing violent video games must satisfy strict scrutiny instead of the more lenient standard applied in Ginsberg, 390 U. S. 629, our most closely related precedent. As a result of today's decision, a State may prohibit the sale to minors of what Ginsberg described as "girlie magazines," but a State must surmount a formidable (and perhaps insurmountable) obstacle if it wishes to prevent children from purchasing the most violent and depraved video games imaginable.     Third, Stevens expressly left open the possibility that a more narrowly drawn statute targeting depictions of animal cruelty might be compatible with the First Amendment. See 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 19). In this case, the Court's sweeping opinion will likely be read by many, both inside and outside the video-game industry, as suggesting that no regulation of minors' access to violent video games is allowed--at least without supporting evidence that may not be realistically obtainable given the nature of the phenomenon in question.B     The Court's opinion distorts the effect of the California law. I certainly agree with the Court that the government has no "free-floating power to restrict the ideas to which children may be exposed," ante, at 7, but the California law does not exercise such a power. If parents want their child to have a violent video game, the California law does not interfere with that parental prerogative. Instead, the California law reinforces parental decisionmaking in exactly the same way as the New York statute upheld in Ginsberg. Under both laws, minors are prevented from purchasing certain materials; and under both laws, parents are free to supply their children with these items if that is their wish.     Citing the video-game industry's voluntary rating system, the Court argues that the California law does not "meet a substantial need of parents who wish to restrict their children's access to violent video games but cannot do so." Ante, at 15. The Court does not mention the fact that the industry adopted this system in response to the threat of federal regulation, Brief for Activision Blizzard, Inc., as Amicus Curiae 7-10, a threat that the Court's opinion may now be seen as largely eliminating. Nor does the Court acknowledge that compliance with this system at the time of the enactment of the California law left much to be desired6--or that future enforcement may decline if the video-game industry perceives that any threat of government regulation has vanished. Nor does the Court note, as Justice Breyer points out, see post, at 11 (dissenting opinion), that many parents today are simply not able to monitor their children's use of computers and gaming devices.C     Finally, the Court is far too quick to dismiss the possibility that the experience of playing video games (and the effects on minors of playing violent video games) may be very different from anything that we have seen before. Any assessment of the experience of playing video games must take into account certain characteristics of the video games that are now on the market and those that are likely to be available in the near future.     Today's most advanced video games create realistic alternative worlds in which millions of players immerse themselves for hours on end. These games feature visual imagery and sounds that are strikingly realistic, and in the near future video-game graphics may be virtually indistinguishable from actual video footage.7 Many of the games already on the market can produce high definition images,8 and it is predicted that it will not be long before video-game images will be seen in three dimensions.9 It is also forecast that video games will soon provide sensory feedback.10 By wearing a special vest or other device, a player will be able to experience physical sensations supposedly felt by a character on the screen.11 Some amici who support respondents foresee the day when " 'virtual-reality shoot-'em-ups' " will allow children to " 'actually feel the splatting blood from the blown-off head' " of a victim. Brief for Reporters Comm. for Freedom of the Press et al. as Amici Curiae 29 (quoting H. Schechter, Savage Pastimes 18 (2005)).     Persons who play video games also have an unprecedented ability to participate in the events that take place in the virtual worlds that these games create. Players can create their own video-game characters and can use photos to produce characters that closely resemble actual people. A person playing a sophisticated game can make a multitude of choices and can thereby alter the course of the action in the game. In addition, the means by which players control the action in video games now bear a closer relationship to the means by which people control action in the real world. While the action in older games was often directed with buttons or a joystick, players dictate the action in newer games by engaging in the same motions that they desire a character in the game to perform.12 For example, a player who wants a video-game character to swing a baseball bat--either to hit a ball or smash a skull--could bring that about by simulating the motion of actually swinging a bat.     These present-day and emerging characteristics of video games must be considered together with characteristics of the violent games that have already been marketed.     In some of these games, the violence is astounding.13 Victims by the dozens are killed with every imaginable implement, including machine guns, shotguns, clubs, hammers, axes, swords, and chainsaws. Victims are dismembered, decapitated, disemboweled, set on fire, and chopped into little pieces. They cry out in agony and beg for mercy. Blood gushes, splatters, and pools. Severed body parts and gobs of human remains are graphically shown. In some games, points are awarded based, not only on the number of victims killed, but on the killing technique employed.     It also appears that there is no antisocial theme too base for some in the video-game industry to exploit. There are games in which a player can take on the identity and reenact the killings carried out by the perpetrators of the murders at Columbine High School and Virginia Tech.14 The objective of one game is to rape a mother and her daughters;15 in another, the goal is to rape Native American women.16 There is a game in which players engage in "ethnic cleansing" and can choose to gun down African-Americans, Latinos, or Jews.17 In still another game, players attempt to fire a rifle shot into the head of President Kennedy as his motorcade passes by the Texas School Book Depository.18     If the technological characteristics of the sophisticated games that are likely to be available in the near future are combined with the characteristics of the most violent games already marketed, the result will be games that allow troubled teens to experience in an extraordinarily personal and vivid way what it would be like to carry out unspeakable acts of violence.     The Court is untroubled by this possibility. According to the Court, the "interactive" nature of video games is "nothing new" because "all literature is interactive." Ante, at 10-11. Disagreeing with this assessment, the International Game Developers Association (IGDA)--a group that presumably understands the nature of video games and that supports respondents--tells us that video games are "far more concretely interactive." Brief for IGDA et al. as Amici Curiae 3. And on this point, the game developers are surely correct.     It is certainly true, as the Court notes, that " '[l]it-erature, when it is successful draws the reader into the story, makes him identify with the characters, invites him to judge them and quarrel with them, to experience their joys and sufferings as the reader's own.' " Ante, at 11 (quoting American Amusement Machine Assn. v. Kendrick, 244 F. 3d 572, 577 (CA7 2001)). But only an extraordinarily imaginative reader who reads a description of a killing in a literary work will experience that event as vividly as he might if he played the role of the killer in a video game. To take an example, think of a person who reads the passage in Crime and Punishment in which Raskolnikov kills the old pawn broker with an axe. See F. Dostoyevsky, Crime and Punishment 78 (Modern Library ed. 1950). Compare that reader with a video-game player who creates an avatar that bears his own image; who sees a realistic image of the victim and the scene of the killing in high definition and in three dimensions; who is forced to decide whether or not to kill the victim and decides to do so; who then pretends to grasp an axe, to raise it above the head of the victim, and then to bring it down; who hears the thud of the axe hitting her head and her cry of pain; who sees her split skull and feels the sensation of blood on his face and hands. For most people, the two experiences will not be the same.19     When all of the characteristics of video games are taken into account, there is certainly a reasonable basis for thinking that the experience of playing a video game may be quite different from the experience of reading a book, listening to a radio broadcast, or viewing a movie. And if this is so, then for at least some minors, the effects of playing violent video games may also be quite different. The Court acts prematurely in dismissing this possibility out of hand.*??*??*     For all these reasons, I would hold only that the particular law at issue here fails to provide the clear notice that the Constitution requires. I would not squelch legislative efforts to deal with what is perceived by some to be a significant and developing social problem. If differently framed statutes are enacted by the States or by the Federal Government, we can consider the constitutionality of those laws when cases challenging them are presented to us.EDMUND G. BROWN, Jr., GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA, et al., PETITIONERS v. ENTERTAINMENT MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[June 27, 2011]     Justice Thomas, dissenting.     The Court's decision today does not comport with the original public understanding of the First Amendment. The majority strikes down, as facially unconstitutional, a state law that prohibits the direct sale or rental of certain video games to minors because the law "abridg[es] the freedom of speech." U. S. Const., Amdt. 1. But I do not think the First Amendment stretches that far. The practices and beliefs of the founding generation establish that "the freedom of speech," as originally understood, does not include a right to speak to minors (or a right of minors to access speech) without going through the minors' parents or guardians. I would hold that the law at issue is not facially unconstitutional under the First Amendment, and reverse and remand for further proceedings.1I     When interpreting a constitutional provision, "the goal is to discern the most likely public understanding of [that] provision at the time it was adopted." McDonald v. Chicago, 561 U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (slip op., at 25) (Thomas, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment). Because the Constitution is a written instrument, "its meaning does not alter." McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Comm'n, 514 U. S. 334, 359 (1995) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (internal quotation marks omitted). "That which it meant when adopted, it means now." Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).     As originally understood, the First Amendment's protection against laws "abridging the freedom of speech" did not extend to all speech. "There are certain well-defined and narrowly limited classes of speech, the prevention and punishment of which have never been thought to raise any Constitutional problem." Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568, 571-572 (1942); see also United States v. Stevens, 559 U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (slip op., at 5-6). Laws regulating such speech do not "abridg[e] the freedom of speech" because such speech is understood to fall outside "the freedom of speech." See Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition, 535 U. S. 234, 245-246 (2002).     In my view, the "practices and beliefs held by the Founders" reveal another category of excluded speech: speech to minor children bypassing their parents. McIntyre, supra, at 360. The historical evidence shows that the founding generation believed parents had absolute authority over their minor children and expected parents to use that authority to direct the proper development of their children. It would be absurd to suggest that such a society understood "the freedom of speech" to include a right to speak to minors (or a corresponding right of minors to access speech) without going through the minors' parents. Cf. Brief for Common Sense Media as Amicus Curiae 12-15. The founding generation would not have considered it an abridgment of "the freedom of speech" to support parental authority by restricting speech that bypasses minors' parents.A     Attitudes toward children were in a state of transition around the time that the States ratified the Bill of Rights. A complete understanding of the founding generation's views on children and the parent-child relationship must therefore begin roughly a century earlier, in colonial New England.     In the Puritan tradition common in the New England Colonies, fathers ruled families with absolute authority. "The patriarchal family was the basic building block of Puritan society." S. Mintz, Huck's Raft 13 (2004) (hereinafter Mintz); see also R. MacDonald, Literature for Children in England and America from 1646 to 1774, p. 7 (1982) (hereinafter MacDonald). The Puritans rejected many customs, such as godparenthood, that they considered inconsistent with the patriarchal structure. Mintz 13.     Part of the father's absolute power was the right and duty "to fill his children's minds with knowledge and ... make them apply their knowledge in right action." E. Morgan, The Puritan Family 97 (rev. ed. 1966) (herein-after Morgan). Puritans thought children were "innately sinful and that parents' primary task was to suppress their children's natural depravity." S. Mintz & S. Kellogg, Domestic Revolutions 2 (1988) (hereinafter Mintz & Kellogg); see also B. Wadsworth, The Well-Ordered Family 55 (1712) ("Children should not be left to themselves ... to do as they please; ... not being fit to govern themselves"); C. Mather, A Family Well-Ordered 38 (1699). Accordingly, parents were not to let their children read "vain Books, profane Ballads, and filthy Songs" or "fond and amorous Romances, ... fabulous Histories of Giants, the bombast Achievements of Knight Errantry, and the like." The History of Genesis, pp. vi-vii (3d ed. corrected 1708).     This conception of parental authority was reflected in laws at that time. In the Massachusetts Colony, for example, it was unlawful for tavern keepers (or anyone else) to entertain children without their parents' consent. 2 Records and Files of the Quarterly Courts of Essex County, Massachusetts, p. 180 (1912); 4 id., at 237, 275 (1914); 5 id., at 143 (1916); see also Morgan 146. And a "stubborn or rebellious son" of 16 years or more committed a capital offense if he disobeyed "the voice of his Father, or the voice of his Mother." The Laws and Liberties of Massachusetts 6 (1648) (reprint M. Farrand ed. 1929); see also J. Kamensky, Governing the Tongue 102, n. 14 (1997) (citing similar laws in the Connecticut, New Haven, Plymouth, and New Hampshire Colonies in the late 1600's).B     In the decades leading up to and following the Revolution, attitudes towards children changed. See, e.g., J. Reinier, From Virtue to Character: American Childhood, 1775-1850, p. 1 (1996) (hereinafter Reinier). Children came to be seen less as innately sinful and more as blank slates requiring careful and deliberate development. But the same overarching principles remained. Parents continued to have both the right and duty to ensure the proper development of their children. They exercised significant authority over their children, including control over the books that children read. And laws at the time continued to reflect strong support for parental authority and the sense that children were not fit to govern themselves.1     The works of John Locke and Jean-Jacques Rousseau were a driving force behind the changed understanding of children and childhood. See Reinier 2-5; H. Brewer, By Birth or Consent 97 (2005) (hereinafter Brewer); K. Calvert, Children in the House 59-60 (1992) (hereinafter Calvert). Locke taught that children's minds were blank slates and that parents therefore had to be careful and deliberate about what their children were told and observed. Parents had only themselves to blame if, "by hu-mouring and cockering" their children, they "poison'd the fountain" and later "taste[d] the bitter waters." Some Thoughts Concerning Education (1692), in 37 English Philosophers of the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries 27-28 (C. Eliot ed. 1910). All vices, he explained, were sowed by parents and "those about children." Id., at 29. Significantly, Locke did not suggest circumscribing parental authority but rather articulated a new basis for it. Rousseau disagreed with Locke in important respects, but his philosophy was similarly premised on parental control over a child's development. Although Rousseau advocated that children should be allowed to develop naturally, he instructed that the environment be directed by "a tutor who is given total control over the child and who removes him from society, from all competing sources of authority and influence." J. Fliegelman, Prodigals and Pilgrims 30 (1982) (hereinafter Fliegelman); see also Reinier 15.     These writings received considerable attention in America. Locke's An Essay Concerning Human Understanding and his Some Thoughts Concerning Education were significantly more popular than his Two Treatises of Government, according to a study of 92 colonial libraries between 1700 and 1776. Lundberg & May, The Enlightened Reader in America, 28 American Quarterly 262, 273 (1976) (hereinafter Lundberg). And Rousseau's Emile, a treatise on education, was more widely advertised and distributed than his political work, The Social Contract. Fliegelman 29; see also Lundberg 285. In general, the most popular books in the Colonies on the eve of the American Revolution were not political discourses but ones concerned with child rearing. See Mintz & Kellogg 45.2     Locke's and Rousseau's writings fostered a new conception of childhood. Children were increasingly viewed as malleable creatures, and childhood came to be seen as an important period of growth, development, and preparation for adulthood. See Mintz & Kellogg 17, 21, 47; M. Grossberg, Governing the Hearth 8 (1985) (hereinafter Grossberg). Noah Webster, called the father of American education, wrote that "[t]he impressions received in early life usually form the characters of individuals." On the Education of Youth in America (1790) (hereinafter Webster), in Essays on Education in the Early Republic 43 (F. Rudolph ed. 1965) (hereinafter Rudolph); cf. Slater, Noah Webster: Founding Father of American Scholarship and Education, in Noah Webster's First Edition of an American Dictionary of the English Language (1967). Elizabeth Smith, sister-in-law to John Adams, similarly wrote: "The Infant Mind, I beleive[,] is a blank, that eassily receives any impression." M. Norton, Liberty's Daughters 101 (1996) (internal quotation marks omitted) (hereinafter Norton); see also S. Doggett, A Discourse on Education (1796) (hereinafter Doggett), in Rudolph 151 ("[I]n early youth, ... every power and capacity is pliable and susceptible of any direction or impression"); J. Abbott, The Mother at Home 2 (1834) (hereinafter Abbott) ("What impressions can be more strong, and more lasting, than those received upon the mind in the freshness and the susceptibility of youth").     Children lacked reason and decisionmaking ability. They "have not Judgment or Will of their own," John Adams noted. Letter to James Sullivan (May 26, 1776), in 4 Papers of John Adams 210 (R. Taylor ed. 1979); see also Vol. 1 1787: Drafting the Constitution, p. 229 (W. Benton ed. 1986) (quoting Gouvernor Morris in James Madison's notes from the Constitutional Convention explaining that children do not vote because they "want prudence" and "have no will of their own"). Children's "utter incapacity" rendered them "almost wholly at the mercy of their Parents or Instructors for a set of habits to regulate their whole conduct through life." J. Burgh, Thoughts on Education 7 (1749) (hereinafter Burgh).     This conception of childhood led to great concern about influences on children. "Youth are ever learning to do what they see others around them doing, and these imitations grow into habits." Doggett, in Rudolph 151; see also B. Rush, A Plan for the Establishment of Public Schools (1786) (hereinafter Rush), in Rudolph 16 ("The vices of young people are generally learned from each other"); Webster, in Rudolph 58 ("[C]hildren, artless and unsuspecting, resign their hearts to any person whose manners are agreeable and whose conduct is respectable"). Books therefore advised parents "not to put children in the way of those whom you dare not trust." L. Child, The Mother's Book 149 (1831) (hereinafter Child); see also S. Coontz, The Social Origins of Private Life 149-150 (1988) (noting that it was "considered dangerous to leave children to the supervision of servants or apprentices").     As a result, it was widely accepted that children needed close monitoring and carefully planned development. See B. Wishy, The Child and the Republic 24-25, 32 (1968) (hereinafter Wishy); Grossberg 8. Managing the young mind was considered "infinitely important." Doggett, in Rudolph 151; see also A. MacLeod, A Moral Tale 72-73 (1975) (hereinafter MacLeod). In an essay on the education of youth in America, Noah Webster described the human mind as "a rich field, which, without constant care, will ever be covered with a luxuriant growth of weeds." Rudolph 54. He advocated sheltering children from "every low-bred, drunken, immoral character" and keeping their minds "untainted till their reasoning faculties have acquired strength and the good principles which may be planted in their minds have taken deep root." Id., at 63; see also Rush, in id., at 16 ("[T]he most useful citizens have been formed from those youth who have never known or felt their own wills till they were one and twenty years of age"); Burgh 7 ("[T]he souls of Youth are more immediately committed to the care of Parents and Instructors than even those of a People are to their Pastor").     The Revolution only amplified these concerns. The Re-public would require virtuous citizens, which necessitated proper training from childhood. See Mintz 54, 71; MacLeod 40; Saxton, French and American Childhoods, in Children and Youth in a New Nation 69 (J. Marten ed. 2009) (hereinafter Marten); see also W. Cardell, Story of Jack Halyard, pp. xv-xvi (30th ed. 1834) (hereinafter Cardell) ("[T]he glory and efficacy of our institutions will soon rest with those who are growing up to succede us"). Children were "the pivot of the moral world," and their proper development was "a subject of as high interest, as any to which the human mind ha[d] ever been called." Id., at xvi.3     Based on these views of childhood, the founding generation understood parents to have a right and duty to govern their children's growth. Parents were expected to direct the development and education of their children and ensure that bad habits did not take root. See Calvert 58-59; MacLeod 72; Mintz & Kellogg 23. They were responsible for instilling "moral prohibitions, behavioral standards, and a capacity for self-government that would prepare a child for the outside world." Mintz & Kellogg 58; see also Youth's Companion, Apr. 16, 1827, p. 1 (hereinafter Youth's Companion) ("Let [children's] minds be formed, their hearts prepared, and their characters moulded for the scenes and the duties of a brighter day"). In short, "[h]ome and family bore the major responsibility for the moral training of children and thus, by implication, for the moral health of the nation." MacLeod 29; see also Introduction, in Marten 6; Reinier, p. xi; Smith, Autonomy and Affection: Parents and Children in Eighteenth-Century Chesapeake Families, in Growing up in America 54 (N. Hiner & J. Hawes eds. 1985).     This conception of parental rights and duties was exemplified by Thomas Jefferson's approach to raising children. He wrote letters to his daughters constantly and often gave specific instructions about what the children should do. See, e.g., Letter to Martha Jefferson (Nov. 28, 1783), in S. Randolph, The Domestic Life of Thomas Jefferson 44 (1939) (dictating her daily schedule of music, dancing, drawing, and studying); Letter to Martha Jefferson (Dec. 22, 1783), in id., at 45-46 ("I do not wish you to be gaily clothed at this time of life ... . [A]bove all things and at all times let your clothes be neat, whole, and properly put on"). Jefferson expected his daughter, Martha, to write "by every post" and instructed her, "Inform me what books you read [and] what tunes you learn." Letter (Nov. 28, 1783), in id., at 44. He took the same approach with his nephew, Peter Carr, after Carr's father died. See Letter (Aug. 19, 1785), in 8 The Papers of Thomas Jefferson 405-408 (J. Boyd ed. 1953) (detailing a course of reading and exercise, and asking for monthly progress reports describing "in what manner you employ every hour in the day"); see also 3 Dictionary of Virginia Biography 29 (2006).     Jefferson's rigorous management of his charges was not uncommon. "[M]uch evidence indicates that mothers and fathers both believed in giving their children a strict upbringing, enforcing obedience to their commands and stressing continued subjection to the parental will." Norton 96. Two parenting books published in the 1830's gave prototypical advice. In The Mother's Book, Lydia Child advised that "[t]he first and most important step in management is, that whatever a mother says, always must be done." Child 26. John Abbott, the author of The Mother at Home, likewise advised that "[o]bedience is absolutely essential to proper family government." Abbott 18. Echoing Locke, Abbott warned that parents who indulged a child's "foolish and unreasonable wishes" would doom that child to be indulgent in adulthood. Id., at 16.     The concept of total parental control over children's lives extended into the schools. "The government both of families and schools should be absolute," declared Noah Webster. Rudolph 57-58. Dr. Benjamin Rush concurred: "In the education of youth, let the authority of our masters be as absolute as possible." Id., at 16. Through the doctrine of in loco parentis, teachers assumed the " 'sacred dut[y] of parents ... to train up and qualify their children' " and exercised the same authority " 'to command obedience, to control stubbornness, to quicken diligence, and to reform bad habits.' " Morse v. Frederick, 551 U. S. 393, 413-414 (2007) (Thomas, J., concurring) (quoting State v. Pendergrass, 19 N. C. 365, 365-366 (1837)); see also Wishy 73. Thus, the quality of teachers and schools had to "be watched with the most scrupulous attention." Webster, in Rudolph 64.     For their part, children were expected to be dutiful and obedient. Mintz & Kellogg 53; Wishy 31; cf. J. Kett, Rites of Passage 45 (1977). Schoolbooks instructed children to do so and frequently featured vignettes illustrating the consequences of disobedience. See Adams, "Pictures of the Vicious ultimately overcome by misery and shame": The Cultural Work of Early National Schoolbooks (hereinafter Adams), in Marten 156. One oft-related example was the hangings of 19 alleged witches in 1692, which, the schoolbooks noted, likely began with false complaints by two young girls. See J. Morse, The American Geography 191 (1789); see also Adams, in Marten 164.     An entire genre of books, "loosely termed 'advice to youth,' " taught similar lessons well into the 1800's. J. Demos, Circles and Lines: The Shape of Life in Early America 73 (2004); cf. Wishy 54. "Next to your duty to God," advised one book, "is your duty to your parents" even if the child did not "understand the reason of their commands." L. Sigourney, The Girl's Reading Book 44 (14th ed. 1843); see also Filial Duty Recommended and Enforced, Introduction, p. iii (c. 1798); The Parent's Present 44 (3d ed. 1841). "Disobedience is generally punished in some way or other," warned another, "and often very severely." S. Goodrich, Peter Parley's Book of Fables 43 (1836); see also The Country School-House 27 (1848) ("[T]he number of children who die from the effects of disobedience to their parents is very large").4     Society's concern with children's development extended to the books they read. "Vice always spreads by being published," Noah Webster observed. Rudolph 62. "[Y]oung people are taught many vices by fiction, books, or public exhibitions, vices which they never would have known had they never read such books or attended such public places." Ibid.; see also Cardell, p. xii (cautioning parents that "[t]he first reading lessons for children have an extensive influence on the acquisitions and habits of future years"); Youth's Companion 1 ("[T]he capacities of children, and the peculiar situation and duties of youth, require select and appropriate reading"). Prominent children's authors harshly criticized fairy tales and the use of anthropomorphic animals. See, e.g., S. Goodrich, 2 Recollections of a Lifetime 320, n.* (1856) (describing fairy tales as "calculated to familiarize the mind with things shocking and monstrous; to cultivate a taste for tales of bloodshed and violence; to teach the young to use coarse language, and cherish vulgar ideas; ... and to fill [the youthful mind] with the horrors of a debased and debauched fancy"); 1 id., at 167 (recalling that children's books were "full of nonsense" and "lies"); Cardell, p. xiv ("The fancy of converting inferior animals into 'teachers of children,' has been carried to ridiculous extravagance"); see also MacDonald 83, 103 (noting that fables and works of fantasy were not popular in America in the 1700's).     Adults carefully controlled what they published for children. Stories written for children were dedicated to moral instruction and were relatively austere, lacking details that might titillate children's minds. See MacLeod 24-25, 42-48; see also id., at 42 ("The authors of juvenile fiction imposed the constraints upon themselves in the name of duty, and for the sake of giving children what they thought children should have, although they were often well aware that children might prefer more exciting fare"); Francis, American Children's Literature, 1646-1880, in American Childhood 208-209 (J. Hawes & N. Hiner eds. 1985). John Newbery, the publisher often credited with creating the genre of children's literature, removed traditional folk characters, like Tom Thumb, from their original stories and placed them in new morality tales in which good children were rewarded and disobedient children punished. Reinier 12.     Parents had total authority over what their children read. See A. MacLeod, American Childhood 177 (1994) ("Ideally, if not always actually, nineteenth-century parents regulated their children's lives fully, certainly including their reading"). Lydia Child put it bluntly in The Mother's Book: "Children ... should not read anything without a mother's knowledge and sanction; this is particularly necessary between the ages of twelve and sixteen." Child 92; see also id., at 143 ("[P]arents, or some guardian friends, should carefully examine every volume they put into the hands of young people"); E. Monaghan, Learning to Read and Write in Colonial America 337 (2005) (reviewing a 12-year-old girl's journal from the early 1770's and noting that the child's aunts monitored and guided her reading).5     The law at the time reflected the founding generation's understanding of parent-child relations. According to Sir William Blackstone, parents were responsible for maintaining, protecting, and education their children, and therefore had "power" over their children. 1 Commentaries on the Laws of England 434, 440 (1765); cf. Washington v. Glucksberg, 521 U. S. 702, 712 (1997) (Blackstone's Commentaries was "a primary legal authority for 18th- and 19th-century American lawyers"). Chancellor James Kent agreed. 2 Commentaries on American Law *189-*207. The law entitled parents to "the custody of their [children]," "the value of th[e] [children's] labor and services," and the "right to the exercise of such discipline as may be requisite for the discharge of their sacred trust." Id., at *193, *203. Children, in turn, were charged with "obedience and assistance during their own minority, and gratitude and reverance during the rest of their lives." Id., at *207.     Thus, in case after case, courts made clear that parents had a right to the child's labor and services until the child reached majority. In 1810, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts explained, "There is no question but that a father, who is entitled to the services of his minor son, and for whom he is obliged to provide, may, at the common law, assign those services to others, for a consideration to enure to himself." Day v. Everett, 7 Mass. 145, 147; see also Benson v. Remington, 2 Mass. 113, 115 (1806) (opinion of Parsons, C. J.) ("The law is very well settled, that parents are under obligations to support their children, and that they are entitled to their earnings"). Similarly, the Supreme Court of Judicature of New Hampshire noted that the right of parents to recover for the services of their child, while a minor, "cannot be contested." Gale v. Parrot, 1 N. H. 28, 29 (1817). And parents could bring tort suits against those who knowingly enticed a minor away from them. See, e.g., Kirkpatrick v. Lockhart, 2 Brev. 276 (S. C. Constitutional Ct. 1809); Jones v. Tevis, 4 Litt. 25 (Ky. App. 1823).     Relatedly, boys could not enlist in the military without parental consent. Many of those who did so during the Revolutionary War found, afterwards, that their fathers were entitled to their military wages. See Cox, Boy Soldiers of the American Revolution, in Marten 21-24. And after the war, minors who enlisted without parental consent in violation of federal law could find themselves returned home on writs of habeas corpus issued at their parents' request. See, e.g., United States v. Anderson, 24 F. Cas. 813 (No. 14,449) (CC Tenn. 1812); Commonwealth v. Callan, 6 Binn. 255 (Pa. 1814) (per curiam).     Laws also set age limits restricting marriage without parental consent. For example, from 1730 until at least 1849, Pennsylvania law required parental consent for the marriage of anyone under the age of 21. See 4 Statutes at Large of Pennsylvania 153 (J. Mitchell & H. Flanders eds. 1897) (hereinafter Pa. Stats. at Large); General Laws of Pennsylvania 82-83 (J. Dunlop 2d ed. 1849) (including the 1730 marriage law with no amendments); see also Perpetual Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts 253 (1788), in The First Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (J. Cushing ed. 1981). In general, "[p]ost-Revolutionary marriage law assumed that below a certain age, children could ... no[t] intellectually understand its significance." Grossberg 105.     Indeed, the law imposed age limits on all manner of activities that required judgment and reason. Children could not vote, could not serve on juries, and generally could not be witnesses in criminal cases unless they were older than 14. See Brewer 43, 145, 148, 159. Nor could they swear loyalty to a State. See, e.g., 9 Pa. Stats. at Large 111 (1903 ed.). Early federal laws granting aliens the ability to become citizens provided that those under 21 were deemed citizens if their fathers chose to naturalize. See, e.g., Act of Mar. 26, 1790, 1 Stat. 104; Act of Jan. 29, 1795, ch. 20, 1 Stat. 415.C     The history clearly shows a founding generation that believed parents to have complete authority over their minor children and expected parents to direct the development of those children. The Puritan tradition in New England laid the foundation of American parental authority and duty. See MacDonald 6 ("The Puritans are virtually the inventors of the family as we know it today"). In the decades leading up to and following the Revolution, the conception of the child's mind evolved but the duty and authority of parents remained. Indeed, society paid closer attention to potential influences on children than before. See Mintz 72 ("By weakening earlier forms of patriarchal authority, the Revolution enhanced the importance of childrearing and education in ensuring social stability"). Teachers and schools came under scrutiny, and children's reading material was carefully supervised. Laws reflected these concerns and often supported parental authority with the coercive power of the state.IIA     In light of this history, the Framers could not possibly have understood "the freedom of speech" to include an unqualified right to speak to minors. Specifically, I am sure that the founding generation would not have understood "the freedom of speech" to include a right to speak to children without going through their parents. As a consequence, I do not believe that laws limiting such speech--for example, by requiring parental consent to speak to a minor--"abridg[e] the freedom of speech" within the original meaning of the First Amendment.     We have recently noted that this Court does not have "freewheeling authority to declare new categories of speech outside the scope of the First Amendment." Stevens, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9). But we also recognized that there may be "some categories of speech that have been historically unprotected [and] have not yet been specifically identified or discussed as such in our case law." Ibid. In my opinion, the historical evidence here plainly reveals one such category.2B     Admittedly, the original public understanding of a constitutional provision does not always comport with modern sensibilities. See Morse, 551 U. S., at 419 (Thomas, J., concurring) (treating students "as though it were still the 19th century would find little support today"). It may also be inconsistent with precedent. See McDonald, 561 U. S., at ___-___ (Thomas, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 4852) (rejecting the Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36 (1873), as inconsistent with the original public meaning of the Privileges or Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment).     This, however, is not such a case. Although much has changed in this country since the Revolution, the notion that parents have authority over their children and that the law can support that authority persists today. For example, at least some States make it a crime to lure or entice a minor away from the minor's parent. See, e.g., Cal. Penal Code Ann. §272(b)(1) (West 2008); Fla. Stat. §787.03 (2010). Every State in the Union still establishes a minimum age for marriage without parental or judicial consent. Cf. Roper v. Simmons, 543 U. S. 551, 558 (Appendix D to opinion of Court) (2005). Individuals less than 18 years old cannot enlist in the military without parental consent. 10 U. S. C. §505(a). And minors remain subject to curfew laws across the country, see Brief for Louisiana et al. as Amici Curiae 16, and cannot unilaterally consent to most medical procedures, id., at 15.     Moreover, there are many things minors today cannot do at all, whether they have parental consent or not. State laws set minimum ages for voting and jury duty. See Roper, supra, at 581-585 (Appendixes B and C to opinion of Court). In California (the State at issue here), minors cannot drive for hire or drive a school bus, Cal. Veh. Code Ann. §§12515, 12516 (West 2010), purchase tobacco, Cal. Penal Code Ann. §308(b) (West 2008), play bingo for money, §326.5(e), or execute a will, Cal. Probate Code Ann. §6220 (West 2009).     My understanding of "the freedom of speech" is also consistent with this Court's precedents. To be sure, the Court has held that children are entitled to the protection of the First Amendment, see, e.g., Erznoznik v. Jacksonville, 422 U. S. 205, 212-213 (1975), and the government may not unilaterally dictate what children can say or hear, see id., at 213-214; Tinker v. Des Moines Independent Community School Dist., 393 U. S. 503, 511 (1969). But this Court has never held, until today, that "the freedom of speech" includes a right to speak to minors (or a right of minors to access speech) without going through the minors' parents. To the contrary, "[i]t is well settled that a State or municipality can adopt more stringent controls on communicative materials available to youths than on those available to adults." Erznoznik, supra, at 212; cf. post, at 3 (Breyer, J., dissenting).     The Court's constitutional jurisprudence "historically has reflected Western civilization concepts of the family as a unit with broad parental authority over minor children." Parham v. J. R., 442 U. S. 584, 602 (1979). Under that case law, "legislature[s] [can] properly conclude that parents and others, teachers for example, who have ... primary responsibility for children's well-being are entitled to the support of laws designed to aid discharge of that responsibility." Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U. S. 629, 639 (1968); see also Bellotti v. Baird, 443 U. S. 622, 635 (1979) (opinion of Powell, J.) ("[T]he State is entitled to adjust its legal system to account for children's vulnerability and their needs for concern, ... sympathy, and ... paternal attention" (internal quotation marks omitted)). This is because "the tradition of parental authority is not inconsistent with our tradition of individual liberty; rather, the former is one of the basic presuppositions of the latter." Id., at 638; id., at 638-639 ("Legal restrictions on minors, especially those supportive of the parental role, may be important to the child's chances for the full growth and maturity that make eventual participation in a free society meaningful and rewarding").III     The California law at issue here prohibits the sale or rental of "violent video game[s]" to minors, defined as anyone "under 18 years of age." Cal. Civ. Code Ann. §§1746.1(a), 1746 (West 2009). A violation of the law is punishable by a civil fine of up to $1,000. §1746.3. Critically, the law does not prohibit adults from buying or renting violent video games for a minor or prohibit minors from playing such games. Cf. ante, at 10 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment); post, at 10 (Breyer, J., dissenting). The law also does not restrict a "minor's parent, grandparent, aunt, uncle, or legal guardian" from selling or renting him a violent video game. §1746.1(c).     Respondents, associations of companies in the video game industry, brought a preenforcement challenge to California's law, claiming that on its face the law violates the free speech rights of their members. The Court holds that video games are speech for purposes of the First Amendment and finds the statute facially unconstitutional. See ante, at 2-3, 11-17. I disagree.     Under any of this Court's standards for a facial First Amendment challenge, this one must fail. The video game associations cannot show "that no set of circumstances exists under which [the law] would be valid," "that the statute lacks any plainly legitimate sweep," or that "a substantial number of its applications are unconstitutional, judged in relation to the statute's plainly legitimate sweep." Stevens, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10) (internal quotation marks omitted). Even assuming that video games are speech, in most applications the California law does not implicate the First Amendment. All that the law does is prohibit the direct sale or rental of a violent video game to a minor by someone other than the minor's parent, grandparent, aunt, uncle, or legal guardian. Where a minor has a parent or guardian, as is usually true, the law does not prevent that minor from obtaining a violent video game with his parent's or guardian's help. In the typical case, the only speech affected is speech that bypasses a minor's parent or guardian. Because such speech does not fall within "the freedom of speech" as originally understood, California's law does not ordinarily implicate the First Amendment and is not facially unconstitutional.3*??*??*     "The freedom of speech," as originally understood, does not include a right to speak to minors without going through the minors' parents or guardians. Therefore, I cannot agree that the statute at issue is facially unconstitutional under the First Amendment.     I respectfully dissent.EDMUND G. BROWN, Jr., GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA, et al., PETITIONERS v. ENTERTAINMENT MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[June 27, 2011]     Justice Breyer, dissenting.     California imposes a civil fine of up to $1,000 upon any person who distributes a violent video game in California without labeling it "18," or who sells or rents a labeled violent video game to a person under the age of 18. Representatives of the video game and software industries, claiming that the statute violates the First Amendment on its face, seek an injunction against its enforcement. Applying traditional First Amendment analysis, I would uphold the statute as constitutional on its face and would consequently reject the industries' facial challenge.IA     California's statute defines a violent video game as: A game in which a player "kill[s], maim[s], dismember[s], or sexually assault[s] an image of a human being,"and"[a] reasonable person, considering the game as a whole, would find [the game] appeals to a deviant or morbid interest of minors,"and"[the game] is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the community as to what is suitable for minors,"and"the game, as a whole, ... lack[s] serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value for minors." Cal. Civ. Code Ann. §1746(d)(1) (West 2009).The statute in effect forbids the sale of such a game to minors unless they are accompanied by a parent; it requires the makers of the game to affix a label identifying it as a game suitable only for those aged 18 and over; it exempts retailers from liability unless such a label is properly affixed to the game; and it imposes a civil fine of up to $1,000 upon a violator. See §§1746.1-1746.3.B     A facial challenge to this statute based on the First Amendment can succeed only if "a substantial number of its applications are unconstitutional, judged in relation to the statute's plainly legitimate sweep." United States v. Stevens, 559 U. S. __, __ (2010) (slip op., at 10) (internal quotation marks omitted). Moreover, it is more difficult to mount a facial First Amendment attack on a statute that seeks to regulate activity that involves action as well as speech. See Broadrick v. Oklahoma, 413 U. S. 601, 614-615 (1973). Hence, I shall focus here upon an area within which I believe the State can legitimately apply its statute, namely sales to minors under the age of 17 (the age cutoff used by the industry's own ratings system), of highly realistic violent video games, which a reasonable game maker would know meet the Act's criteria. That area lies at the heart of the statute. I shall assume that the number of instances in which the State will enforce the statute within that area is comparatively large, and that the number outside that area (for example, sales to 17-year-olds) is comparatively small. And the activity the statute regulates combines speech with action (a virtual form of target practice).C     In determining whether the statute is unconstitutional, I would apply both this Court's "vagueness" precedents and a strict form of First Amendment scrutiny. In doing so, the special First Amendment category I find relevant is not (as the Court claims) the category of "depictions of violence," ante, at 8, but rather the category of "protection of children." This Court has held that the "power of the state to control the conduct of children reaches beyond the scope of its authority over adults." Prince v. Massachusetts, 321 U. S. 158, 170 (1944). And the " 'regulatio[n] of communication addressed to [children] need not conform to the requirements of the [F]irst [A]mendment in the same way as those applicable to adults.' " Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U. S. 629, 638, n. 6 (1968) (quoting Emerson, Toward a General Theory of the First Amendment, 72 Yale L. J. 877, 939 (1963)).     The majority's claim that the California statute, if upheld, would create a "new categor[y] of unprotected speech," ante, at 3, 6, is overstated. No one here argues that depictions of violence, even extreme violence, automatically fall outside the First Amendment's protective scope as, for example, do obscenity and depictions of child pornography. We properly speak of categories of expression that lack protection when, like "child pornography," the category is broad, when it applies automatically, and when the State can prohibit everyone, including adults, from obtaining access to the material within it. But where, as here, careful analysis must precede a narrower judicial conclusion (say, denying protection to a shout of "fire" in a crowded theater, or to an effort to teach a terrorist group how to peacefully petition the United Nations), we do not normally describe the result as creating a "new category of unprotected speech." See Schenck v. United States, 249 U. S. 47, 52 (1919); Holder v. Humanitarian Law Project, 561 U. S. __ (2010).     Thus, in Stevens, after rejecting the claim that all de-pictions of animal cruelty (a category) fall outside the First Amendment's protective scope, we went on to decide whether the particular statute at issue violates the First Amendment under traditional standards; and we held that, because the statute was overly broad, it was invalid. Similarly, here the issue is whether, applying traditional First Amendment standards, this statute does, or does not, pass muster.II     In my view, California's statute provides "fair notice of what is prohibited," and consequently it is not impermissibly vague. United States v. Williams, 553 U. S. 285, 304 (2008). Ginsberg explains why that is so. The Court there considered a New York law that forbade the sale to minors of a"picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion picture film, or similar visual representation or image of a person or portion of the human body which depicts nudity . . . ,"that"predominately appeals to the prurient, shameful or morbid interest of minors,"and"is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for minors,"and"is utterly without redeeming social importance for minors." 390 U. S., at 646-647.This Court upheld the New York statute in Ginsberg (which is sometimes unfortunately confused with a very different, earlier case, Ginzburg v. United States, 383 U. S. 463 (1966)). The five-Justice majority, in an opinion written by Justice Brennan, wrote that the statute was sufficiently clear. 390 U. S., at 643-645. No Member of the Court voiced any vagueness objection. See id., at 648-650 (Stewart, J., concurring in result); id., at 650-671 (Douglas, J., joined by Black, J., dissenting); id., at 671-675 (Fortas, J., dissenting).     Comparing the language of California's statute (set forth supra, at 1-2) with the language of New York's statute (set forth immediately above), it is difficult to find any vagueness-related difference. Why are the words "kill," "maim," and "dismember" any more difficult to understand than the word "nudity?" Justice Alito objects that these words do "not perform the narrowing function" that this Court has required in adult obscenity cases, where statutes can only cover " 'hard core' " depictions. Ante, at 6 (opinion concurring in judgment). But the relevant comparison is not to adult obscenity cases but to Ginsberg, which dealt with "nudity," a category no more "narrow" than killing and maiming. And in any event, narrowness and vagueness do not necessarily have anything to do with one another. All that is required for vagueness purposes is that the terms "kill," "maim," and "dismember" give fair notice as to what they cover, which they do.     The remainder of California's definition copies, almost word for word, the language this Court used in Miller v. California, 413 U. S. 15 (1973), in permitting a total ban on material that satisfied its definition (one enforced with criminal penalties). The California law's reliance on "community standards" adheres to Miller, and in Fort Wayne Books, Inc. v. Indiana, 489 U. S. 46, 57-58 (1989), this Court specifically upheld the use of Miller's language against charges of vagueness. California only departed from the Miller formulation in two significant respects: It substituted the word "deviant" for the words "prurient" and "shameful," and it three times added the words "for minors." The word "deviant" differs from "prurient" and "shameful," but it would seem no less suited to defining and narrowing the reach of the statute. And the addition of "for minors" to a version of the Miller standard was approved in Ginsberg, 390 U. S., at 643, even though the New York law "dr[ew] no distinction between young children and adolescents who are nearing the age of majority," ante, at 8 (opinion of Alito, J.).     Both the Miller standard and the law upheld in Ginsberg lack perfect clarity. But that fact reflects the difficulty of the Court's long search for words capable of protecting expression without depriving the State of a legitimate constitutional power to regulate. As is well known, at one point Justice Stewart thought he could do no better in defining obscenity than, "I know it when I see it." Jacobellis v. Ohio, 378 U. S. 184, 197 (1964) (concurring opinion). And Justice Douglas dissented from Miller's standard, which he thought was still too vague. 413 U. S., at 39-40. Ultimately, however, this Court accepted the "community standards" tests used in Miller and Ginsberg. They reflect the fact that sometimes, even when a precise standard proves elusive, it is easy enough to identify instances that fall within a legitimate regulation. And they seek to draw a line, which, while favoring free expression, will nonetheless permit a legislature to find the words necessary to accomplish a legitimate constitutional objective. Cf. Williams, supra, at 304 (the Constitution does not always require " 'perfect clarity and precise guidance,' " even when " 'expressive activity' " is involved).     What, then, is the difference between Ginsberg and Miller on the one hand and the California law on the other? It will often be easy to pick out cases at which California's statute directly aims, involving, say, a character who shoots out a police officer's knee, douses him with gasoline, lights him on fire, urinates on his burning body, and finally kills him with a gunshot to the head. (Footage of one such game sequence has been submitted in the record.) See also ante, at 14-15 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment). As in Miller and Ginsberg, the California law clearly protects even the most violent games that possess serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value. §1746(d)(1)(A)(iii). And it is easier here than in Miller or Ginsberg to separate the sheep from the goats at the statute's border. That is because here the industry itself has promulgated standards and created a review process, in which adults who "typically have experience with children" assess what games are inappropriate for minors. See Entertainment Software Rating Board, Rating Process, online at http://www.esrb.org/ratings/&ratings_ process.jsp (all Internet materials as visited June 24, 2011, and available in Clerk of Court's case file).     There is, of course, one obvious difference: The Ginsberg statute concerned depictions of "nudity," while California's statute concerns extremely violent video games. But for purposes of vagueness, why should that matter? Justice Alito argues that the Miller standard sufficed because there are "certain generally accepted norms concerning expression related to sex," whereas there are no similarly "accepted standards regarding the suitability of violent entertainment." Ante, at 7-8. But there is no evidence that is so. The Court relied on "community standards" in Miller precisely because of the difficulty of articulating "accepted norms" about depictions of sex. I can find no difference--historical or otherwise--that is relevant to the vagueness question. Indeed, the majority's examples of literary descriptions of violence, on which Justice Alito relies, do not show anything relevant at all.     After all, one can find in literature as many (if not more) descriptions of physical love as descriptions of violence. Indeed, sex "has been a theme in art and literature throughout the ages." Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition, 535 U. S. 234, 246 (2002). For every Homer, there is a Titian. For every Dante, there is an Ovid. And for all the teenagers who have read the original versions of Grimm's Fairy Tales, I suspect there are those who know the story of Lady Godiva.     Thus, I can find no meaningful vagueness-related dif-ferences between California's law and the New York law upheld in Ginsberg. And if there remain any vagueness problems, the state courts can cure them through interpretation. See Erznoznik v. Jacksonville, 422 U. S. 205, 216 (1975) ("[S]tate statute should not be deemed facially invalid unless it is not readily subject to a narrowing construction by the state courts"). Cf. Ginsberg, supra, at 644 (relying on the fact that New York Court of Appeals would read a knowledge requirement into the statute); Berry v. Santa Barbara, 40 Cal. App. 4th 1075, 1088-1089, 47 Cal. Rptr. 2d 661, 669 (1995) (reading a knowledge requirement into a statute). Consequently, for purposes of this facial challenge, I would not find the statute unconstitutionally vague.III     Video games combine physical action with expression. Were physical activity to predominate in a game, government could appropriately intervene, say by requiring parents to accompany children when playing a game in-volving actual target practice, or restricting the sale of toys presenting physical dangers to children. See generally Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, 122 Stat. 3016 ("Title I--Children's Product Safety"). But because video games also embody important expressive and artistic elements, I agree with the Court that the First Amendment significantly limits the State's power to regulate. And I would determine whether the State has exceeded those limits by applying a strict standard of review.     Like the majority, I believe that the California law must be "narrowly tailored" to further a "compelling interest," without there being a "less restrictive" alternative that would be "at least as effective." Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union, 521 U. S. 844, 874, 875, 879 (1997). I would not apply this strict standard "mechanically." United States v. Playboy Entertainment Group, Inc., 529 U. S. 803, 841 (2000) (Breyer, J., joined by Rehnquist, C. J., and O'Connor and Scalia, JJ., dissenting). Rather, in applying it, I would evaluate the degree to which the statute injures speech-related interests, the nature of the potentially-justifying "compelling interests," the degree to which the statute furthers that interest, the nature and effectiveness of possible alternatives, and, in light of this evaluation, whether, overall, "the statute works speech-related harm . . . out of proportion to the benefits that the statute seeks to provide." Ibid. See also Burson v. Freeman, 504 U. S. 191, 210 (1992) (plurality opinion) (applying strict scrutiny and finding relevant the lack of a "significant impingement" on speech).     First Amendment standards applied in this way are difficult but not impossible to satisfy. Applying "strict scrutiny" the Court has upheld restrictions on speech that, for example, ban the teaching of peaceful dispute resolution to a group on the State Department's list of terrorist organizations, Holder, 561 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 22-34); but cf. id., at ___ (slip op., at 1 ) (Breyer, J., dissenting), and limit speech near polling places, Burson, supra, at 210-211 (plurality opinion). And applying less clearly defined but still rigorous standards, the Court has allowed States to require disclosure of petition signers, Doe v. Reed, 561 U. S. ___ (2010), and to impose campaign contribution limits that were " 'closely drawn' to match a 'sufficiently important interest,' " Nixon v. Shrink Missouri Government PAC, 528 U. S. 377, 387-388 (2000).     Moreover, although the Court did not specify the "level of scrutiny" it applied in Ginsberg, we have subsequently described that case as finding a "compelling interest" in protecting children from harm sufficient to justify limitations on speech. See Sable Communications of Cal., Inc. v. FCC, 492 U. S. 115, 126 (1989). Since the Court in Ginsberg specified that the statute's prohibition applied to material that was not obscene, 390 U. S., at 634, I cannot dismiss Ginsberg on the ground that it concerned obscenity. But cf. ante, at 6 (majority opinion). Nor need I depend upon the fact that the Court in Ginsberg insisted only that the legislature have a "rational" basis for finding the depictions there at issue harmful to children. 390 U. S., at 639. For in this case, California has substan-tiated its claim of harm with considerably stronger evidence.A     California's law imposes no more than a modest restriction on expression. The statute prevents no one from playing a video game, it prevents no adult from buying a video game, and it prevents no child or adolescent from obtaining a game provided a parent is willing to help. §1746.1(c). All it prevents is a child or adolescent from buying, without a parent's assistance, a gruesomely violent video game of a kind that the industry itself tells us it wants to keep out of the hands of those under the age of 17. See Brief for Respondents 8.     Nor is the statute, if upheld, likely to create a precedent that would adversely affect other media, say films, or videos, or books. A typical video game involves a significant amount of physical activity. See ante, at 13-14 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment) (citing examples of the increasing interactivity of video game controllers). And pushing buttons that achieve an interactive, virtual form of target practice (using images of human beings as targets), while containing an expressive component, is not just like watching a typical movie. See infra, at 14.B     The interest that California advances in support of the statute is compelling. As this Court has previously described that interest, it consists of both (1) the "basic" parental claim "to authority in their own household to direct the rearing of their children," which makes it proper to enact "laws designed to aid discharge of [parental] responsibility," and (2) the State's "independent interest in the well-being of its youth." Ginsberg, 390 U. S., at 639-640. Cf. id., at 639, n. 7 (" '[O]ne can well distinguish laws which do not impose a morality on children, but which support the right of parents to deal with the morals of their children as they see fit' " (quoting Henkin, Morals and the Constitution: The Sin of Obscenity, 63 Colum. L. Rev. 391, 413, n. 68 (1963))). And where these interests work in tandem, it is not fatally "underinclusive" for a State to advance its interests in protecting children against the special harms present in an interactive video game medium through a default rule that still allows parents to provide their children with what their parents wish.     Both interests are present here. As to the need to help parents guide their children, the Court noted in 1968 that " 'parental control or guidance cannot always be provided.' " 390 U. S., at 640. Today, 5.3 million grade-school-age children of working parents are routinely home alone. See Dept. of Commerce, Census Bureau, Who's Minding the Kids? Child Care Arrangements: Spring 2005/Summer 2006, p. 12 (2010), online at http:// www.census.gov/prod/2010pubs/p70-121.pdf. Thus, it has, if anything, become more important to supplement parents' authority to guide their children's development.     As to the State's independent interest, we have pointed out that juveniles are more likely to show a " 'lack of maturity' " and are "more vulnerable or susceptible to negative influences and outside pressures," and that their "character . . . is not as well formed as that of an adult." Roper v. Simmons, 543 U. S. 551, 569-570 (2005). And we have therefore recognized "a compelling interest in protecting the physical and psychological well-being of minors." Sable Communications, supra, at 126.     At the same time, there is considerable evidence that California's statute significantly furthers this compelling interest. That is, in part, because video games are excellent teaching tools. Learning a practical task often means developing habits, becoming accustomed to performing the task, and receiving positive reinforcement when performing that task well. Video games can help develop habits, accustom the player to performance of the task, and reward the player for performing that task well. Why else would the Armed Forces incorporate video games into its training? See CNN, War Games: Military Training Goes High-Tech (Nov. 22, 2001), online at http://articles.cnn.com / 2001-11-2 / tech /2war.games_1_ictbill-swartout-real-world-training?_s=PM:TECH.     When the military uses video games to help soldiers train for missions, it is using this medium for a beneficial purpose. But California argues that when the teaching features of video games are put to less desirable ends, harm can ensue. In particular, extremely violent games can harm children by rewarding them for being violently aggressive in play, and thereby often teaching them to be violently aggressive in life. And video games can cause more harm in this respect than can typically passive media, such as books or films or television programs.     There are many scientific studies that support California's views. Social scientists, for example, have found causal evidence that playing these games results in harm. Longitudinal studies, which measure changes over time, have found that increased exposure to violent video games causes an increase in aggression over the same period. See Möller & Krahé, Exposure to Violent Video Games and Aggression in German Adolescents: A Longitudinal Analysis, 35 Aggressive Behavior 75 (2009); Gentile & Gentile, Violent Video Games as Exemplary Teachers: A Conceptual Analysis, 37 J. Youth & Adolescence 127 (2008); Anderson et al., Longitudinal Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggression in Japan and the United States, 122 Pediatrics e1067 (2008); Wallenius & Punamäki, Digital Game Violence and Direct Aggression in Adolescence: A Longitudinal Study of the Roles of Sex, Age, and Parent-Child Communication, 29 J. Applied Developmental Psychology 286 (2008).     Experimental studies in laboratories have found that subjects randomly assigned to play a violent video game subsequently displayed more characteristics of aggression than those who played nonviolent games. See, e.g., Anderson et al., Violent Video Games: Specific Effects of Violent Content on Aggressive Thoughts and Behavior, 36 Advances in Experimental Soc. Psychology 199 (2004).     Surveys of 8th and 9th grade students have found a correlation between playing violent video games and aggression. See, e.g., Gentile, Lynch, Linder, & Walsh, The Effects of Violent Video Game Habits On Adolescent Hostility, Aggressive Behaviors, and School Performance, 27 J. Adolescence 5 (2004).     Cutting-edge neuroscience has shown that "virtual violence in video game playing results in those neural patterns that are considered characteristic for aggressive cognition and behavior." Weber, Ritterfeld, & Mathiak, Does Playing Violent Video Games Induce Aggression? Empirical Evidence of a Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Study, 8 Media Psychology 39, 51 (2006).     And "meta-analyses," i.e., studies of all the studies, have concluded that exposure to violent video games "was positively associated with aggressive behavior, aggressive cognition, and aggressive affect," and that "playing violent video games is a causal risk factor for long-term harmful outcomes." Anderson et al., Violent Video Game Effects on Aggression, Empathy, and Prosocial Behavior in Eastern and Western Countries: A Meta-Analytic Review, 136 Psychological Bulletin 151, 167, 169 (2010) (emphasis added).     Some of these studies take care to explain in a common- sense way why video games are potentially more harmful than, say, films or books or television. In essence, they say that the closer a child's behavior comes, not to watching, but to acting out horrific violence, the greater the potential psychological harm. See Bushman & Huesmann, Aggression, in 2 Handbook of Social Pscyhology 833, 851 (S. Fiske, D. Gilbert, & G. Lindzey eds., 5th ed. 2010) (video games stimulate more aggression because "[p]eople learn better when they are actively involved," players are "more likely to identify with violent characters," and "violent games directly reward violent behavior"); Polman, de Castro, & van Aken, Experimental Study of the Differential Effects of Playing Versus Watching Violent Video Games on Children's Aggressive Behavior, 34 Aggressive Behavior 256 (2008) (finding greater aggression resulting from playing, as opposed to watching, a violent game); C. Anderson, D. Gentile, & K. Buckley, Violent Video Game Effects on Children and Adolescents 136-137 (2007) (three studies finding greater effects from games as opposed to television). See also infra, at 15-16 (statements of expert public health associations agreeing that interactive games can be more harmful than "passive" media like television); ante, at 12-17 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment).     Experts debate the conclusions of all these studies. Like many, perhaps most, studies of human behavior, each study has its critics, and some of those critics have produced studies of their own in which they reach different conclusions. (I list both sets of research in the appendixes.) I, like most judges, lack the social science expertise to say definitively who is right. But associations of public health professionals who do possess that expertise have reviewed many of these studies and found a significant risk that violent video games, when compared with more passive media, are particularly likely to cause children harm.     Eleven years ago, for example, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, the American Psychological Association, the American Medical Association, the American Academy of Family Physicians, and the American Psychiatric Association released a joint statement, which said:"[O]ver 1000 studies . . . point overwhelmingly to a causal connection between media violence and aggressive behavior in some children . . . [and, though less research had been done at that time, preliminary studies indicated that] the impact of violent interactive entertainment (video games and other interactive media) on young people . . . may be significantly more severe than that wrought by television, movies, or music." Joint Statement on the Impact of Entertainment Violence on Children (2000) (emphasis added), online at http://www.aap.org/advocacy/releases/jstmtevc.htm.     Five years later, after more research had been done, the American Psychological Association adopted a resolution that said:"[C]omprehensive analysis of violent interactive video game research suggests such exposure . . . increases aggressive behavior, . . . increases aggressive thoughts, . . . increases angry feelings, . . . decreases helpful behavior, and . . . increases physiological arousal." Resolution on Violence in Video Games and Interactive Media (2005), online at http:// www.apa.org / about / governance / council / policy/ interactive-media.pdf.The Association added:"[T]he practice, repetition, and rewards for acts of violence may be more conducive to increasing aggressive behavior among children and youth than passively watching violence on TV and in films." Ibid. (emphasis added).Four years after that, in 2009, the American Academy of Pediatrics issued a statement in significant part about interactive media. It said:"Studies of these rapidly growing and ever-more-sophisticated types of media have indicated that the effects of child-initiated virtual violence may be even more profound than those of passive media such as television. In many games the child or teenager is 'embedded' in the game and uses a 'joystick' (handheld controller) that enhances both the experience and the aggressive feelings." Policy Statement--Media Violence, 124 Pediatrics 1495, 1498 (2009) (emphasis added).It added:"Correlational and experimental studies have revealed that violent video games lead to increases in aggressive behavior and aggressive thinking and decreases in prosocial behavior. Recent longitudinal studies . . . have revealed that in as little as 3 months, high exposure to violent video games increased physical aggression. Other recent longitudinal studies . . . have revealed similar effects across 2 years." Ibid. (footnotes omitted).     Unlike the majority, I would find sufficient grounds in these studies and expert opinions for this Court to defer to an elected legislature's conclusion that the video games in question are particularly likely to harm children. This Court has always thought it owed an elected legislature some degree of deference in respect to legislative facts of this kind, particularly when they involve technical matters that are beyond our competence, and even in First Amendment cases. See Holder, 561 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 28-29) (deferring, while applying strict scrutiny, to the Government's national security judgments); Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, 520 U. S. 180, 195-196 (1997) (deferring, while applying intermediate scrutiny, to the Government's technological judgments). The majority, in reaching its own, opposite conclusion about the validity of the relevant studies, grants the legislature no deference at all. Compare ante, at 12-13 (stating that the studies do not provide evidence that violent video games "cause" harm (emphasis deleted)), with supra, at 12-13 (citing longitudinal studies finding causation).C     I can find no "less restrictive" alternative to California's law that would be "at least as effective." See Reno, 521 U. S., at 874. The majority points to a voluntary alternative: The industry tries to prevent those under 17 from buying extremely violent games by labeling those games with an "M" (Mature) and encouraging retailers to restrict their sales to those 17 and older. See ante, at 15-16. But this voluntary system has serious enforcement gaps. When California enacted its law, a Federal Trade Commission (FTC) study had found that nearly 70% of unaccompanied 13- to 16-year-olds were able to buy M-rated video games. FTC, Marketing Violent Entertainment to Children 27 (2004), online at http://www.ftc.gov/os/2004/ 07/040708kidsviolencerpt.pdf. Subsequently the voluntary program has become more effective. But as of the FTC's most recent update to Congress, 20% of those under 17 are still able to buy M-rated video games, and, breaking down sales by store, one finds that this number rises to nearly 50% in the case of one large national chain. FTC, Marketing Violent Entertainment to Children 28 (2009), online at http://www.ftc.gov/os/2009/12/ P994511violententertainment.pdf. And the industry could easily revert back to the substantial noncompliance that existed in 2004, particularly after today's broad ruling reduces the industry's incentive to police itself.     The industry also argues for an alternative technological solution, namely "filtering at the console level." Brief for Respondents 53. But it takes only a quick search of the Internet to find guides explaining how to circumvent any such technological controls. YouTube viewers, for example, have watched one of those guides (called "How to bypass parental controls on the Xbox 360") more than 47,000 times. See http://www.youtube.com/watch?v= CFlVfVmvN6k.IV     The upshot is that California's statute, as applied to its heartland of applications (i.e., buyers under 17; extremely violent, realistic video games), imposes a restriction on speech that is modest at most. That restriction is justified by a compelling interest (supplementing parents' efforts to prevent their children from purchasing potentially harmful violent, interactive material). And there is no equally effective, less restrictive alternative. California's statute is consequently constitutional on its face--though litigants remain free to challenge the statute as applied in particular instances, including any effort by the State to apply it to minors aged 17.     I add that the majority's different conclusion creates a serious anomaly in First Amendment law. Ginsberg makes clear that a State can prohibit the sale to minors of depictions of nudity; today the Court makes clear that a State cannot prohibit the sale to minors of the most violent interactive video games. But what sense does it make to forbid selling to a 13-year-old boy a magazine with an image of a nude woman, while protecting a sale to that 13-year-old of an interactive video game in which he actively, but virtually, binds and gags the woman, then tortures and kills her? What kind of First Amendment would permit the government to protect children by restricting sales of that extremely violent video game only when the woman--bound, gagged, tortured, and killed--is also topless?     This anomaly is not compelled by the First Amendment. It disappears once one recognizes that extreme violence, where interactive, and without literary, artistic, or similar justification, can prove at least as, if not more, harmful to children as photographs of nudity. And the record here is more than adequate to support such a view. That is why I believe that Ginsberg controls the outcome here a fortiori. And it is why I believe California's law is constitutional on its face.     This case is ultimately less about censorship than it is about education. Our Constitution cannot succeed in securing the liberties it seeks to protect unless we can raise future generations committed cooperatively to making our system of government work. Education, however, is about choices. Sometimes, children need to learn by making choices for themselves. Other times, choices are made for children--by their parents, by their teachers, and by the people acting democratically through their governments. In my view, the First Amendment does not disable government from helping parents make such a choice here--a choice not to have their children buy extremely violent, interactive video games, which they more than reasonably fear pose only the risk of harm to those children.     For these reasons, I respectfully dissent.APPENDIXES     With the assistance of the Supreme Court Library, I have compiled these two appendixes listing peer-reviewed academic journal articles on the topic of psychological harm resulting from playing violent video games. The library conducted a search for relevant articles on the following databases: PsycINFO, PubMed, Academic Search Premier, ArticleFirst (OCLC), and Dialog (files 1, 7, 34, 98, 121, 142, 144, 149). The following search terms were used: "(video* or computer or arcade or online) and (game*) and (attack* or fight* or aggress* or violen* or hostil* or ang* or arous* or prosocial or help* or desens* or empathy)." After eliminating irrelevant matches based on title or abstract, I categorized these articles as either supporting the hypothesis that violent video games are harmful (listed in Appendix A), or not supporting/rejecting the hypothesis that violent video games are harmful (listed in Appendix B).     Many, but not all, of these articles were available to the California Legislature or the parties in briefing this case. I list them because they suggest that there is substantial (though controverted) evidence supporting the expert associations of public health professionals that have concluded that violent video games can cause children psychological harm. See supra, at 15-16. And consequently, these studies help to substantiate the validity of the original judgment of the California Legislature, as well as that judgment's continuing validity.AAnderson & Bushman, Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggressive Behavior, Aggressive Cognition, Aggressive Affect, Physiological Arousal, and Prosocial Behavior: A Meta-Analytic Review of the Scientific Literature, 12 Psychological Science: J. Am. Psychological Society 353 (2001).Anderson & Dill, Video Games and Aggressive Thoughts, Feelings, & Behavior in the Laboratory and in Life, 78 J. Personality & Soc. Psychology 772 (2000).Anderson et al., Violent Video Games: Specific Effects of Violent Content on Aggressive Thoughts and Behavior, 36 Advances in Experimental Soc. Psychology 199 (2004).Anderson & Ford, Affect of the Game Player: Short-Term Effects of Highly and Mildly Aggressive Video Games, 12 Personality & Soc. Psychology Bull. 390 (1986).Anderson & Morrow, Competitive Aggression Without Interaction: Effects of Competitive Versus Cooperative Instructions on Aggressive Behavior in Video Games, 21 Personality & Soc. Psychology Bull. 1020 (1995).Anderson et al., Longitudinal Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggression in Japan and the United States, 122 Pediatrics e1067 (2008).Anderson et al., Violent Video Game Effects on Aggression, Empathy, and Prosocial Behavior in Eastern and Western Countries: A Meta-Analytic Review, 136 Psychological Bull. 151 (2010).Anderson, An Update on the Effects of Playing Violent Video Games, 27 J. Adolescence 113 (2004).Anderson et al., The Influence of Media Violence on Youth, 4 Psychological Science in the Public Interest 81 (2003).Anderson & Carnagey, Causal Effects of Violent Sports Video Games on Aggression: Is it Competitiveness or Violent Content? 45 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 731 (2009).Anderson & Murphy, Violent Video Games and Aggressive Behavior in Young Women, 29 Aggressive Behavior 423 (2003).Arriaga, Esteves, Carneiro, & Monteiro, Violent Computer Games and Their Effects on State Hostility and Physiological Arousal, 32 Aggressive Behavior 358 (2006).Arriaga, Esteves, Carneiro, & Monteiro, Are the Effects of Unreal Violent Video Games Pronounced When Playing With a Virtual Reality System? 34 Aggressive Behavior 521 (2008).Baldaro et al., Aggressive and Non-Violent Videogames: Short-Term Psychological and Cardiovascular Effects on Habitual Players, 20 Stress & Health: J. Int'l Society for Investigation of Stress 203 (2004).Ballard, Hamby, Panee, & Nivens, Repeated Exposure to Video Game Play Results in Decreased Blood Pressure Responding, 8 Media Psychology 323 (2006).Ballard & Lineberger, Video Game Violence and Confederate Gender: Effects on Reward and Punishment Given by College Males, 41 Sex Roles 541 (1999).Ballard & Wiest, Mortal Kombat (tm): The Effects of Violent Videogame Play on Males' Hostility and Cardiovascular Responding, 26 J. Applied Soc. Psychology 717 (1996).Barlett, Branch, Rodeheffer, & Harris, How Long do the Short-Term Violent Video Game Effects Last? 35 Aggressive Behavior 225 (2009).Barlett, Rodeheffer, Baldassaro, Hinkin, & Harris, The Effect of Advances in Video Game Technology and Content on Aggressive Cognitions, Hostility, and Heart Rate, 11 Media Psychology 540 (2008).Barlett, Harris, & Baldassaro, Longer You Play, the More Hostile You Feel: Examination of First Person Shooter Video Games and Aggression During Video Game Play, 33 Aggressive Behavior 486 (2007).Barlett, Harris, & Bruey, The Effect of the Amount of Blood in a Violent Video Game on Aggression, Hostility, and Arousal, 44 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 539 (2008).Barlett & Rodeheffer, Effects of Realism on Extended Violent and Nonviolent Video Game Play on Aggressive Thoughts, Feelings, and Physiological Arousal, 35 Aggressive Behavior 213 (2009).Barlett, Anderson, & Swing, Video Game Effects--Confirmed, Suspected, and Speculative: A Review of the Evidence, 40 Simulation & Gaming 377 (2009).Bartholow, Sestir, & Davis, Correlates and Consequences of Exposure to Video Game Violence: Hostile Personality, Empathy, and Aggressive Behavior, 31 Personality & Soc. Psychology Bull. 1573 (2005).Bartholow & Anderson, Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggressive Behavior: Potential Sex Differences, 38 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 283 (2002).Bartholow, Bushman, & Sestir, Chronic Violent Video Game Exposure and Desensitization to Violence: Behavioral and Event-Related Brain Potential Data, 42 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 532 (2006).Bluemke, Friedrich, & Zumbach, The Influence of Violent and Nonviolent Computer Games on Implicit Measures of Aggressiveness, 36 Aggressive Behavior 1 (2010).Brady & Matthews, Effects of Media Violence on Health-Related Outcomes Among Young Men, 160 Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Med. 341 (2006).Browne & Hamilton-Giachritsis, The Influence of Violent Media on Children and Adolescents: A Public-Health Approach, 365 Lancet 702 (2005).Bushman & Anderson, Violent Video Games and Hostile Expectations: A Test of the General Aggression Model, 28 Personality & Soc. Psychology Bull. 1679 (2002).Bushman & Anderson, Comfortably Numb: Desensitizing Effects of Violent Media on Helping Others, 20 Psychological Science: J. Am. Psychological Society 273 (2009).Bushman, Rothstein, & Anderson, Much Ado About Something: Violent Video Game Effects and a School of Red Herring: Reply to Ferguson and Kilburn, 136 Psychological Bull. 182 (2010).Calvert & Tan, Impact of Virtual Reality on Young Adults' Physiological Arousal and Aggressive Thoughts: Interaction Versus Observation, 15 J. Applied Developmental Psychology 125 (1994).Carnagey, Anderson, & Bartholow, Media Violence and Social Neuroscience: New Questions and New Opportunities, 16 Current Directions in Psychological Science 178 (2007).Carnagey & Anderson, Violent Video Game Exposure and Aggression: A Literature Review, 45 Minerva Psichiatrica 1 (2004).Carnagey & Anderson, The Effects of Reward and Punishment in Violent Video Games on Aggressive Affect, Cognition, and Behavior, 16 Psychological Science: J. Am. Psychological Society 882 (2005).Carnagey, Anderson, & Bushman, The Effect of Video Game Violence on Physiological Desensitization to Real-life Violence, 43 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 489 (2007).Chambers & Ascione, The Effects of Prosocial and Aggressive Videogames on Children's Donating and Helping, 148 J. Genetic Psychology: Research and Theory on Human Development 499 (1987).Chory & Cicchirillo, The Relationship Between Video Game Play and Trait Verbal Aggressiveness: An Application of the General Aggression Model, 24 Communications Research Reports 113 (2007).Cicchirillo & Chory-Assad, Effects of Affective Orientation and Video Game Play on Aggressive Thoughts and Behaviors, 49 J. Broadcasting & Electronic Media 435 (2005).Colwell & Payne, Negative Correlates of Computer Game Play in Adolescents, 91 British J. Psychology 295 (2000).Cooper & Mackie, Video Games and Aggression in Children, 16 J. Applied Soc. Psychology 726 (1986).Deselms & Altman, Immediate and Prolonged Effects of Videogame Violence, 33 J. Applied Soc. Psychology 1553 (2003).Dill & Dill, Video Game Violence: A Review of the Empirical Literature, 3 Aggression & Violent Behavior 407 (1998).Do&dsign;an, Video Games and Children: Violence in Video Games, 44 Yeni Symposium 161 (2006).Eastin, Video Game Violence and the Female Game Player: Self- and Opponent Gender Effects on Presence and Aggressive Thoughts, 32 Human Communication Research 351 (2006).Emes, Is Mr Pac Man Eating Our Children? A Review of the Effect of Video Games on Children, 42 Canadian J. Psychiatry 409 (1997).Farrar, Krcmar, & Nowak, Contextual Features of Violent Video Games, Mental Models, and Aggression, 56 J. Communication 387 (2006).Fischer, Kastenmüller, & Greitemeyer, Media Violence and the Self: The Impact of Personalized Gaming Characters in Aggressive Video Games on Aggressive Behavior, 46 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 192 (2010).Funk, Children's Exposure to Violent Video Games and Desensitization to Violence, 14 Child & Adolescent Psychiatric Clinics North Am. 387 (2005).Funk, Video Games, 16 Adolescent Med. Clinics 395 (2005).Funk, Baldacci, Pasold, & Baumgardner, Violence Exposure in Real-Life, Video Games, Television, Movies, and the Internet: Is There Desensitization? 27 J. Adolescence 23 (2004).Funk, Buchman, Jenks, & Bechtoldt, Playing Violent Video Games, Desensitization, and Moral Evaluation in Children, 24 J. Applied Developmental Psychology 413 (2003).Funk et al., Aggression and Psychopathology in Adolescents with a Preference for Violent Electronic Games, 28 Aggressive Behavior 134 (2002).Funk, Buchman, Jenks, & Bechtoldt, An Evidence-Based Approach to Examining the Impact of Playing Violent Video and Computer Games, SIMILE: Studies in Media & Information Literacy Educ., vol. 2, no. 4, p. 1 (Nov. 2002).Gentile & Stone, Violent Video Game Effects on Children and Adolescents: A Review of the Literature, 57 Minerva Pediatrica 337 (2005).Gentile et al., The Effects of Prosocial Video Games on Prosocial Behaviors: International Evidence From Correlational, Longitudinal, and Experimental Studies, 35 Personality & Soc. Psychology Bull. 752 (2009).Gentile, Lynch, Linder, & Walsh, The Effects of Violent Video Game Habits on Adolescent Hostility, Aggressive Behaviors, and School Performance, 27 J. Adolescence 5 (2004).Gentile & Gentile, Violent Video Games as Exemplary Teachers: A Conceptual Analysis, 37 J. Youth & Adolescence 127 (2008).Giumetti & Markey, Violent Video Games and Anger as Predictors of Aggression, 41 J. Research in Personality 1234 (2007).Graybill, Kirsch, & Esselman, Effects of Playing Violent Versus Nonviolent Video Games on the Aggressive Ideation of Aggressive and Nonaggressive Children, 15 Child Study J. 199 (1985).Grigoryan, Stepanyan, Stepanyan, & Agababyan, Influence of Aggressive Computer Games on the Brain Cortex Activity Level in Adolescents, 33 Human Physiology 34 (2007).Hastings et al., Young Children's Video/Computer Game Use: Relations With School Performance and Behavior, 30 Issues in Mental Health Nursing 638 (2009).Huesmann, Nailing the Coffin Shut on Doubts That Violent Video Games Stimulate Aggression: Comment on Anderson et al., 136 Psychological Bull. 179 (2010).Huesmann, The Impact of Electronic Media Violence: Scientific Theory and Research, 41 J. Adolescent Health S6 (2007).Huesmann & Taylor, The Role of Media Violence in Violent Behavior, 27 Annual Rev. Public Health 393 (2006).Hummer et al., Short-Term Violent Video Game Play by Adolescents Alters Prefrontal Activity During Cognitive Inhibition, 13 Media Psychology 136 (2010).Irwin & Gross, Cognitive Temp, Violent Video Games, and Aggressive Behavior in Young Boys, 10 J. Family Violence 337 (1995).Kirsh & Mounts, Violent Video Game Play impacts Facial Emotion Recognition, 33 Aggressive Behavior 353 (2007).Kirsh, Mounts, & Olczak, Violent Media Consumption and the Recognition of Dynamic Facial Expressions, 21 J. Interpersonal Violence 571 (2006).Kirsh, Olczak, & Mounts, Violent Video Games Induce an Affect Processing Bias, 7 Media Psychology 239 (2005).Kirsh, The Effects of Violent Video Games on Adolescents: The Overlooked Influence of Development, 8 Aggression & Violent Behavior 377 (2003).Kirsh, Seeing the World Through Mortal Kombat-Colored Glasses: Violent Video Games and the Development of a Short-term Hostile Attribution Bias, 5 Childhood 177 (1998).Konijn, Bijvank, & Bushman, I Wish I Were a Warrior: The Role of Wishful Identification in the Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggression in Adolescent Boys, 43 Developmental Psychology 1038 (2007).Krahé & Möller, Playing Violent Electronic Games, Hostile Attributional Style, and Aggression-related Norms in German Adolescents, 27 J. Adolescence 53 (2004).Krcmar, Farrar, & McGloin, The Effects of Video Game Realism on Attention, Retention and Aggressive Outcomes, 27 Computers in Human Behavior 432 (2011).Krcmar & Lachlan, Aggressive Outcomes and Videogame Play: The Role of Length of Play and the Mechanisms at Work, 12 Media Psychology 249 (2009).Krcmar & Farrar, Retaliatory Aggression and the Effects of Point of View and Blood in Violent Video Games, 12 Mass Communication & Society 115 (2009).Kronenberger et al., Media Violence Exposure in Aggressive and Control Adolescents: Differences in Self- and Parent-Reported Exposure to Violence on Television and in Video Games, 31 Aggressive Behavior 201 (2005).Kronenberger et al., Media Violence Exposure and Executive Functioning in Aggressive and Control Adolescents, 61 J. Clinical Psychology 725 (2005).Kuntsche, Hostility Among Adolescents in Switzerland? Multivariate Relations Between Excessive Media Use and Forms of Violence, 34 J. Adolescent Health 230 (2004).Lee, Peng, & Klein, Will the Experience of Playing a Violent Role in a Video Game Influence People's Judgments of Violent Crimes? 26 Computers in Human Behavior 1019 (2010).Lemmens & Bushman, The Appeal of Violent Video Games to Lower Educated Aggressive Adolescent Boys From Two Countries, 9 CyberPsychology & Behavior 638 (2006).Mathiak & Weber, Toward Brain Correlates of Natural Behavior: fMRI During VIolent Video Games, 27 Human Brain Mapping 948 (2006).Möller & Krahé, Exposure to Violent Video Games and Aggression in German Adolescents: A Longitudinal Analysis, 35 Aggressive Behavior 75 (2009).Nowak, Krcmar, & Farrar, The Causes and Consequences of Presence: Considering the Influence of Violent Video Games on Presence and Aggression, 17 Presence: Teleoperators & Virtual Environments 256 (2008).Olson et al., M-Rated Video Games and Aggressive or Problem Behavior Among Young Adolescents, 13 Applied Developmental Science 188 (2009).Panee & Ballard, High Versus Low Aggressive Priming During Video-Game Training: Effects on Violent Action During Game Play, Hostility, Heart Rate, and Blood Pressure, 32 J. Applied Soc. Psychology 2458 (2002).Persky & Blascovich, Immersive Virtual Environments Versus Traditional Platforms: Effects of Violent and Nonviolent Video Game Play, 10 Media Psychology 135 (2007).Persky & Blascovich, Immersive Virtual Video Game Play and Presence: Influences on Aggressive Feelings and Behavior, 17 Presence: Teleoperators & Virtual Environments 57 (2008).Polman, de Castro, & van Aken, Experimental Study of the Differential Effects of Playing Versus Watching Violent Video Games on Children's Aggressive Behavior, 34 Aggressive Behavior 256 (2008).Potera, Sex and Violence in the Media Influence Teen Behavior: Three Studies Show a Correlation, 109 American J. Nursing 20 (2009).Richmond & Wilson, Are Graphic Media Violence, Aggression, and Moral Disengagement Related? 15 Psychiatry, Psychology & Law 350 (2008).Schaefer & Harrison, The Effects of Violent Fantasy on Children's Aggressive Behavior, 41 Psychology & Educ. 35 (2004).Schmierbach, "Killing Spree": Exploring the Connection Between Competitive Game Play and Aggressive Cognition, 37 Communication Research 256 (2010).Sheese & Graziano, Deciding to Defect: The Effects of Video-Game Violence on Cooperative Behavior, 16 Psychological Science: J. Am. Psychological Society 354 (2005).Sherry, The Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggression. A Meta-Analysis, 27 Human Communication Research 409 (2001).Shibuya, Sakamoto, Ihori, & Yukawa, The Effects of the Presence and Contexts of Video Game Violence on Children: A Longitudinal Study in Japan, 39 Simulation & Gaming 528 (2008).Sigurdsson, Gudjonsson, Bragason, Kristjansdottir, & Sigfusdottir, The Role of Violent Cognition in the Relationship Between Personality and the Involvement in Violent Films and Computer Games, 41 Personality & Individual Differences 381 (2006).Silvern & Williamson, The Effects of Video Game Play on Young Children's Aggression, Fantasy, and Prosocial behavior, 8 J. Applied Developmental Psychology 453 (1987).Slater, Henry, Swaim, & Cardador, Vulnerable Teens, Vulnerable Times: How Sensation Seeking, Alienation, and Victimization Moderate the Violent Media Content--Aggressiveness Relation, 31 Communication Research 642 (2004).Slater, Henry, Swaim, & Anderson, Violent Media Content and Aggressiveness in Adolescents: A Downward Spiral Model, 30 Communication Research 713 (2003).Staude-Müller, Bliesener, & Luthman, Hostile and Hardened? An Experimental Study on (De-)sensitization to Violence and Suffering Through Playing Video Games, 67 Swiss J. Psychology 41 (2008).Steward & Follina, Informing Policies in Forensic Settings: A Review of Research Investigating the Effects of Exposure to Media Violence on Challenging/Offending Behaviour, 8 British J. Forensic Prac. 31 (2006).Swing & Anderson, The Unintended Negative Consequences of Exposure to Violent Video games, 12 Int. J. Cognitive Tech. 3 (2007).Tamborini et al., Violent Virtual Video Games and Hostile Thoughts, 48 J. Broadcasting & Electronic Media 335 (2004).Uhlmann & Swanson, Exposure to Violent Video Games Increases Automatic Aggressiveness, 27 J. Adolescence 41 (2004).Vaughan, Inadvertent Script Change and Increased Propensity for Violence: The Danger of Interactive Video Games, 34 Transactional Analysis J. 30 (2004).Wallenius & Punamäki, Digital Game Violence and Direct Aggression in Adolescence: A Longitudinal Study of the Roles of Sex, Age, and Parent-Child Communication, 29 J. Applied Developmental Psychology 286 (2008).Wallenius, Punamäki, & Rimpelä, Digital Game Playing and Direct and Indirect Aggression in Early Adolescence: The Roles of Age, Social Intelligence, and Parent-Child Communication, 36 J. Youth and Adolescence 325 (2007).Wang et al., Short Term Exposure to a Violent Video Game Induces Changes in Frontolimbic Circuitry in Adolescents, 3 Brain Imaging & Behavior 38 (2009).Weber, Ritterfeld, & Mathiak, Does Playing Violent Video Games Induce Aggression? Empirical Evidence of a Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Study, 8 Media Psychology 39 (2006).Wiegman & van Schie, Video Game Playing and its Relations With Aggressive and Prosocial Behaviour, 37 British J. Soc. Psychology 367 (1998).Williams, The Effects of Frustration, Violence, and Trait Hostility After Playing a Video Game, 12 Mass Communication & Society 291 (2009).Ybarra et al., Linkages Between Internet and Other Media Violence With Seriously Violent Behavior by Youth, 122 Pediatrics 929 (2008).BBensley & Van Eenwyk, Video Games and Real-Life Aggression: Review of the Literature, 29 J. Adolescent Health 244 (2001).Bösche, Violent Content Enhances Video Game Performance, 21 J. Media Psychology: Theories, Methods, and Applications 145 (2009).Colwell & Kato, Video Game Play in British and Japanese Adolescents, 36 Simulation & Gaming 518 (2005).Colwell & Kato, Investigation of the Relationship Between Social Isolation, Self-Esteem, Aggression and Computer Game Play in Japanese Adolescents, 6 Asian J. Soc. Psychology 149 (2003).Dominick, Videogames, Television Violence, and Aggression in Teenagers, 34 J. Communication 136 (1984).Ferguson, Blazing Angels or Resident Evil? Can Violent Video Games be a Force For Good? 14 Rev. Gen. Psychology 68 (2010).Ferguson, Violent Video Games: Dogma, Fear, Pseudoscience, 33 Skeptical Inquirer 38 (2009).Ferguson, The Good, The Bad and the Ugly: A Meta-analytic Review of Positive and Negative Effects of Violent Video Games, 78 Psychiatric Q. 309 (2007).Ferguson & Meehan, Saturday Night's Alright for Fighting: Antisocial Traits, Fighting, and Weapons Carrying in a Large Sample of Youth, 81 Psychiatric Q. 293 (2010).Ferguson et al., Violent Video Games and Aggression, 35 Crim. Justice & Behavior 311 (2008).Ferguson, Research on the Effects of Violent Video Games: A Critical Analysis, 3 Soc. & Personality Psychology Compass 351 (2009).Ferguson & Rueda, The Hitman Study: Violent Video Game Exposure Effects on Aggressive Behavior, Hostile Feelings, and Depression, 15 European Psychologist 99 (2010).Ferguson, San Miguel, & Hartley, A Multivariate Analysis of Youth Violence and Aggression: The Influence of Family, Peers, Depression, and Media Violence, 155 J. Pediatrics 904 (2009).Ferguson, Evidence for Publication Bias in Video Game Violence Effects Literature: A Meta-Analytic Review, 12 Aggression & Violent Behavior 470 (2007).Ferguson, The School Shooting/Violent Video Game Link: Causal Relationship or Moral Panic? 5 J. Investigative Psychology & Offender Profiling 25 (2008).Ferguson et al., Personality, Parental, and Media Influences on Aggressive Personality and Violent Crime in Young Adults, 17 J. Aggression, Maltreatment & Trauma 395 (2008).Ferguson & Kilburn, Much Ado About Nothing: The Misestimation and Overinterpretation of Violent Video Game Effects in Eastern and Western Nations: Comment on Anderson et al. (2010), 136 Psychological Bull. 174 (2010).Fleming & Rickwood, Effects of Violent Versus Nonviolent Video Games on Children's Arousal, Aggressive Mood, and Positive Mood, 31 J. Applied Soc. Psychology 2047 (2001).Griffiths, Violent Video Games and Aggression: A Review of the Literature, 4 Aggression & Violent Behavior 203 (1999).Griffiths, Video Games and Aggression, 10 The Psychologist 397 (1997).Ivory & Kalyanaraman, The Effects of Technological Advancement and Violent Content in Video Games on Players' Feelings of Presence, Involvement, Physiological Arousal, and Aggression, 57 J. Communication 532 (2007).Kestenbaum & Weinstein, Personality, Psychopathology, and Developmental Issues in Male Adolescent Video Game Use, 24 J. Am. Academy Child Psychology 329 (1985).Markey & Markey, Vulnerability to Violent Video Games: A Review and Integration of Personality Research, 14 Rev. Gen. Psychology 82 (2010).Markey & Scherer, An Examination of Psychoticism and Motion Capture Controls as Moderators of the Effects of Violent Video Games, 25 Computers in Human Behavior 407 (2009).Mitrofan, Paul, & Spencer, Is Aggression in Children With Behavioural and Emotional Difficulties Associated With Television Viewing and Video Game Playing? A Systematic Review, 35 Child: Care, Health & Development 5 (2009).Olson, Media Violence Research and Youth Violence Data: Why Do They Conflict? 28 Academic Psychiatry 144 (2004).Porter & Starcevic, Are Violent Video Games Harmful? 15 Australasian Psychiatry 422 (2007).Regenbogen, Herrmann, & Fehr, The Neural Processing of Voluntary Completed, Real and Virtual Violent and NonViolent Computer Game Scenarios Displaying Predefined Actions in Gamers and Nongamers, 5 Soc. Neuroscience 221 (2010).Scott, The Effect of Video Games on Feelings of Aggression, 129 J. Psychology 121 (1995).Sestir & Bartholow, Violent and Nonviolent Video Games Produce Opposing Effects on Aggressive and Prosocial Outcomes, 46 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 934 (2010).Unsworth, Devilly, & Ward, The Effect of Playing Violent Video Games on Adolescents: Should Parents be Quaking in Their Boots? 13 Psychology, Crime & Law 383 (2007).Unsworth & Ward, Video Games and Aggressive Behavior. 36 Australian Psychologist 184 (2001).Williams & Skoric, Internet Fantasy Violence: A Test of Aggression in an Online Game, 72 Communication Monographs 217 (2005).Winkel, Novak, & Hopson, Personality Factors, Subject Gender, and the Effects of Aggressive Video Games on Aggression in Adolescents, 21 J. Research in Personality 211 (1987).FOOTNOTESThe Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970 (FCRA) requires consumer reporting agencies to "follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of" consumer reports, 15 U. S. C. §1681e(b), and imposes liability on "[a]ny person who willfully fails to comply with any requirement [of the Act] with respect to any" individual, §1681n(a).          Petitioner Spokeo, Inc., an alleged consumer reporting agency, operates a "people search engine," which searches a wide spectrum of databases to gather and provide personal information about individuals to a variety of users, including employers wanting to evaluate prospective employees. After respondent Thomas Robins discovered that his Spokeo-generated profile contained inaccurate information, he filed a federal class-action complaint against Spokeo, alleging that the company willfully failed to comply with the FCRA's requirements.          The District Court dismissed Robins' complaint, holding that he had not properly pleaded injury in fact as required by Article III. The Ninth Circuit reversed. Based on Robins' allegation that "Spokeo violated his statutory rights" and the fact that Robins' "personal interests in the handling of his credit information are individualized," the court held that Robins had adequately alleged an injury in fact.Held: Because the Ninth Circuit failed to consider both aspects of the injury-in-fact requirement, its Article III standing analysis was incomplete. Pp. 5-11.     (a) A plaintiff invoking federal jurisdiction bears the burden of establishing the "irreducible constitutional minimum" of standing by demonstrating (1) an injury in fact, (2) fairly traceable to the challenged conduct of the defendant, and (3) likely to be redressed by a favorable judicial decision. Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 560-561. Pp. 5-6.     (b) As relevant here, the injury-in-fact requirement requires a plaintiff to show that he or she suffered "an invasion of a legally protected interest" that is "concrete and particularized" and "actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical." Lujan, supra, at 560. Pp. 7-11.          (1) The Ninth Circuit's injury-in-fact analysis elided the independent "concreteness" requirement. Both observations it made concerned only "particularization," i.e., the requirement that an injury "affect the plaintiff in a personal and individual way," Lujan, supra, at 560, n. 1, but an injury in fact must be both concrete and particularized, see, e.g., Susan B. Anthony List v. Driehaus, 573 U. S. ___, ___. Concreteness is quite different from particularization and requires an injury to be "de facto," that is, to actually exist. Pp. 7-8.          (2) The Ninth Circuit also failed to address whether the alleged procedural violations entail a degree of risk sufficient to meet the concreteness requirement. A "concrete" injury need not be a "tangible" injury. See, e.g., Pleasant Grove City v. Summum, 555 U. S. 460. To determine whether an intangible harm constitutes injury in fact, both history and the judgment of Congress are instructive. Congress is well positioned to identify intangible harms that meet minimum Article III requirements, but a plaintiff does not automatically satisfy the injury-in-fact requirement whenever a statute grants a right and purports to authorize a suit to vindicate it. Article III standing requires a concrete injury even in the context of a statutory violation. This does not mean, however, that the risk of real harm cannot satisfy that requirement. See, e.g., Clapper v. Amnesty Int'l USA, 568 U. S. ____. The violation of a procedural right granted by statute can be sufficient in some circumstances to constitute injury in fact; in such a case, a plaintiff need not allege any additional harm beyond the one identified by Congress, see Federal Election Comm'n v. Akins, 524 U. S. 11, 20-25. This Court takes no position on the correctness of the Ninth Circuit's ultimate conclusion, but these general principles demonstrate two things: that Congress plainly sought to curb the dissemination of false information by adopting procedures designed to decrease that risk and that Robins cannot satisfy the demands of Article III by alleging a bare procedural violation. Pp. 8-11.742 F. 3d 409, vacated and remanded.     Alito, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Kennedy, Thomas, Breyer, and Kagan, JJ., joined. Thomas, J., filed a concurring opinion. Ginsburg, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Sotomayor, J., joined.Opinion of the Court?578 U. S. ____ (2016)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 13-1339SPOKEO, INC., PETITIONER v. THOMAS ROBINSon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[May 16, 2016]     Justice Alito delivered the opinion of the Court.     This case presents the question whether respondent Robins has standing to maintain an action in federal court against petitioner Spokeo under the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970 (FCRA or Act), 84 Stat. 1127, as amended, 15 U. S. C. §1681 et seq.     Spokeo operates a "people search engine." If an individual visits Spokeo's Web site and inputs a person's name, a phone number, or an e-mail address, Spokeo conducts a computerized search in a wide variety of databases and provides information about the subject of the search. Spokeo performed such a search for information about Robins, and some of the information it gathered and then disseminated was incorrect. When Robins learned of these inaccuracies, he filed a complaint on his own behalf and on behalf of a class of similarly situated individuals.     The District Court dismissed Robins' complaint for lack of standing, but a panel of the Ninth Circuit reversed. The Ninth Circuit noted, first, that Robins had alleged that "Spokeo violated his statutory rights, not just the statutory rights of other people," and, second, that "Robins's personal interests in the handling of his credit information are individualized rather than collective." 742 F. 3d 409, 413 (2014). Based on these two observations, the Ninth Circuit held that Robins had adequately alleged injury in fact, a requirement for standing under Article III of the Constitution. Id., at 413-414.     This analysis was incomplete. As we have explained in our prior opinions, the injury-in-fact requirement requires a plaintiff to allege an injury that is both "concrete and particularized." Friends of the Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC), Inc., 528 U. S. 167, 180-181 (2000) (emphasis added). The Ninth Circuit's analysis focused on the second characteristic (particularity), but it overlooked the first (concreteness). We therefore vacate the decision below and remand for the Ninth Circuit to consider both aspects of the injury-in-fact requirement.I     The FCRA seeks to ensure "fair and accurate credit reporting." §1681(a)(1). To achieve this end, the Act regulates the creation and the use of "consumer report[s]"1 by "consumer reporting agenc[ies]"2 for certain specified purposes, including credit transactions, insurance, licensing, consumer-initiated business transactions, and employment. See §§1681a(d)(1)(A)-(C); §1681b. Enacted long before the advent of the Internet, the FCRA applies to companies that regularly disseminate information bearing on an individual's "credit worthiness, credit standing, credit capacity, character, general reputation, personal characteristics, or mode of living." §1681a(d)(1).     The FCRA imposes a host of requirements concerning the creation and use of consumer reports. As relevant here, the Act requires consumer reporting agencies to "follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of" consumer reports, §1681e(b); to notify providers and users of consumer information of their responsibilities under the Act, §1681e(d); to limit the circumstances in which such agencies provide consumer reports "for employment purposes," §1681b(b)(1); and to post toll-free numbers for consumers to request reports, §1681j(a).     The Act also provides that "[a]ny person who willfully fails to comply with any requirement [of the Act] with respect to any [individual3] is liable to that [individual]" for, among other things, either "actual damages" or statutory damages of $100 to $1,000 per violation, costs of the action and attorney's fees, and possibly punitive damages. §1681n(a).     Spokeo is alleged to qualify as a "consumer reporting agency" under the FCRA.4 It operates a Web site that allows users to search for information about other individuals by name, e-mail address, or phone number. In response to an inquiry submitted online, Spokeo searches a wide spectrum of databases and gathers and provides information such as the individual's address, phone number, marital status, approximate age, occupation, hobbies, finances, shopping habits, and musical preferences. App. 7, 10-11. According to Robins, Spokeo markets its services to a variety of users, including not only "employers who want to evaluate prospective employees," but also "those who want to investigate prospective romantic partners or seek other personal information." Brief for Respondent 7. Persons wishing to perform a Spokeo search need not disclose their identities, and much information is available for free.     At some point in time, someone (Robins' complaint does not specify who) made a Spokeo search request for information about Robins, and Spokeo trawled its sources and generated a profile. By some means not detailed in Robins' complaint, he became aware of the contents of that profile and discovered that it contained inaccurate information. His profile, he asserts, states that he is married, has children, is in his 50's, has a job, is relatively affluent, and holds a graduate degree. App. 14. According to Robins' complaint, all of this information is incorrect.     Robins filed a class-action complaint in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, claiming, among other things, that Spokeo willfully failed to comply with the FCRA requirements enumerated above.     The District Court initially denied Spokeo's motion to dismiss the complaint for lack of jurisdiction, but later reconsidered and dismissed the complaint with prejudice. App. to Pet. for Cert. 23a. The court found that Robins had not "properly pled" an injury in fact, as required by Article III. Ibid.     The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed. Relying on Circuit precedent,5 the court began by stating that "the violation of a statutory right is usually a sufficient injury in fact to confer standing." 742 F. 3d, at 412. The court recognized that "the Constitution limits the power of Congress to confer standing." Id., at 413. But the court held that those limits were honored in this case because Robins alleged that "Spokeo violated his statutory rights, not just the statutory rights of other people," and because his "personal interests in the handling of his credit information are individualized rather than collective." Ibid. (emphasis in original). The court thus concluded that Robins' "alleged violations of [his] statutory rights [were] sufficient to satisfy the injury-in-fact requirement of Article III." Id., at 413-414.     We granted certiorari. 575 U. S. ___ (2015).IIA     The Constitution confers limited authority on each branch of the Federal Government. It vests Congress with enumerated "legislative Powers," Art. I, §1; it confers upon the President "[t]he executive Power," Art. II, §1, cl. 1; and it endows the federal courts with "[t]he judicial Power of the United States," Art. III, §1. In order to remain faithful to this tripartite structure, the power of the Federal Judiciary may not be permitted to intrude upon the powers given to the other branches. See DaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno, 547 U. S. 332, 341 (2006); Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 559-560 (1992).     Although the Constitution does not fully explain what is meant by "[t]he judicial Power of the United States," Art. III, § 1, it does specify that this power extends only to "Cases" and "Controversies," Art. III, §2. And " '[n]o principle is more fundamental to the judiciary's proper role in our system of government than the constitutional limitation of federal-court jurisdiction to actual cases or controversies.' " Raines v. Byrd, 521 U. S. 811, 818 (1997).     Standing to sue is a doctrine rooted in the traditional understanding of a case or controversy. The doctrine developed in our case law to ensure that federal courts do not exceed their authority as it has been traditionally understood. See id., at 820. The doctrine limits the category of litigants empowered to maintain a lawsuit in federal court to seek redress for a legal wrong. See Valley Forge Christian College v. Americans United for Separation of Church and State, Inc., 454 U. S. 464, 473 (1982); Warth v. Seldin, 422 U. S. 490, 498-499 (1975). In this way, "[t]he law of Article III standing . . . serves to prevent the judicial process from being used to usurp the powers of the political branches," Clapper v. Amnesty Int'l USA, 568 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 9); Lujan, supra, at 576-577, and confines the federal courts to a properly judicial role, see Warth, supra, at 498.     Our cases have established that the "irreducible constitutional minimum" of standing consists of three elements. Lujan, 504 U. S., at 560. The plaintiff must have (1) suffered an injury in fact, (2) that is fairly traceable to the challenged conduct of the defendant, and (3) that is likely to be redressed by a favorable judicial decision. Id., at 560-561; Friends of the Earth, Inc., 528 U. S., at 180-181. The plaintiff, as the party invoking federal jurisdiction, bears the burden of establishing these elements. FW/PBS, Inc. v. Dallas, 493 U. S. 215, 231 (1990). Where, as here, a case is at the pleading stage, the plaintiff must "clearly . . . allege facts demonstrating" each element. Warth, supra, at 518.6B     This case primarily concerns injury in fact, the "[f ]irst and foremost" of standing's three elements. Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment, 523 U. S. 83, 103 (1998). Injury in fact is a constitutional requirement, and "[i]t is settled that Congress cannot erase Article III's standing requirements by statutorily granting the right to sue to a plaintiff who would not otherwise have standing." Raines, supra, at 820, n. 3; see Summers v. Earth Island Institute, 555 U. S. 488, 497 (2009); Gladstone, Realtors v. Village of Bellwood, 441 U. S. 91, 100 (1979) ("In no event . . . may Congress abrogate the Art. III minima").     To establish injury in fact, a plaintiff must show that he or she suffered "an invasion of a legally protected interest" that is "concrete and particularized" and "actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical." Lujan, 504 U. S., at 560 (internal quotation marks omitted). We discuss the particularization and concreteness requirements below.1     For an injury to be "particularized," it "must affect the plaintiff in a personal and individual way." Ibid., n. 1; see also, e.g., Cuno, supra, at 342 (" 'plaintiff must allege personal injury' "); Whitmore v. Arkansas, 495 U. S. 149, 155 (1990) (" 'distinct' "); Allen v. Wright, 468 U. S. 737, 751 (1984) ("personal"); Valley Forge, supra, at 472 (standing requires that the plaintiff " 'personally has suffered some actual or threatened injury' "); United States v. Richardson, 418 U. S. 166, 177 (1974) (not "undifferentiated"); Public Citizen, Inc. v. National Hwy. Traffic Safety Admin., 489 F. 3d 1279, 1292-1293 (CADC 2007) (collecting cases).7     Particularization is necessary to establish injury in fact, but it is not sufficient. An injury in fact must also be "concrete." Under the Ninth Circuit's analysis, however, that independent requirement was elided. As previously noted, the Ninth Circuit concluded that Robins' complaint alleges "concrete, de facto" injuries for essentially two reasons. 742 F. 3d, at 413. First, the court noted that Robins "alleges that Spokeo violated his statutory rights, not just the statutory rights of other people." Ibid. Second, the court wrote that "Robins's personal interests in the handling of his credit information are individualized rather than collective." Ibid. (emphasis added). Both of these observations concern particularization, not concreteness. We have made it clear time and time again that an injury in fact must be both concrete and particularized. See, e.g., Susan B. Anthony List v. Driehaus, 573 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 8); Summers, supra, at 493; Sprint Communications Co. v. APCC Services, Inc., 554 U. S. 269, 274 (2008); Massachusetts v. EPA, 549 U. S. 497, 517 (2007).     A "concrete" injury must be "de facto"; that is, it must actually exist. See Black's Law Dictionary 479 (9th ed. 2009). When we have used the adjective "concrete," we have meant to convey the usual meaning of the term--"real," and not "abstract." Webster's Third New International Dictionary 472 (1971); Random House Dictionary of the English Language 305 (1967). Concreteness, therefore, is quite different from particularization.2     "Concrete" is not, however, necessarily synonymous with "tangible." Although tangible injuries are perhaps easier to recognize, we have confirmed in many of our previous cases that intangible injuries can nevertheless be concrete. See, e.g., Pleasant Grove City v. Summum, 555 U. S. 460 (2009) (free speech); Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah, 508 U. S. 520 (1993) (free exercise).     In determining whether an intangible harm constitutes injury in fact, both history and the judgment of Congress play important roles. Because the doctrine of standing derives from the case-or-controversy requirement, and because that requirement in turn is grounded in historical practice, it is instructive to consider whether an alleged intangible harm has a close relationship to a harm that has traditionally been regarded as providing a basis for a lawsuit in English or American courts. See Vermont Agency of Natural Resources v. United States ex rel. Stevens, 529 U. S. 765, 775-777 (2000). In addition, because Congress is well positioned to identify intangible harms that meet minimum Article III requirements, its judgment is also instructive and important. Thus, we said in Lujan that Congress may "elevat[e] to the status of legally cognizable injuries concrete, de facto injuries that were previously inadequate in law." 504 U. S., at 578. Similarly, Justice Kennedy's concurrence in that case explained that "Congress has the power to define injuries and articulate chains of causation that will give rise to a case or controversy where none existed before." Id., at 580 (opinion concurring in part and concurring in judgment).     Congress' role in identifying and elevating intangible harms does not mean that a plaintiff automatically satisfies the injury-in-fact requirement whenever a statute grants a person a statutory right and purports to authorize that person to sue to vindicate that right. Article III standing requires a concrete injury even in the context of a statutory violation. For that reason, Robins could not, for example, allege a bare procedural violation, divorced from any concrete harm, and satisfy the injury-in-fact requirement of Article III. See Summers, 555 U. S., at 496 ("[D]eprivation of a procedural right without some concrete interest that is affected by the deprivation . . . is insufficient to create Article III standing"); see also Lujan, supra, at 572.     This does not mean, however, that the risk of real harm cannot satisfy the requirement of concreteness. See, e.g., Clapper v. Amnesty Int'l USA, 568 U. S. ____. For example, the law has long permitted recovery by certain tort victims even if their harms may be difficult to prove or measure. See, e.g., Restatement (First) of Torts §§569 (libel), 570 (slander per se) (1938). Just as the common law permitted suit in such instances, the violation of a procedural right granted by statute can be sufficient in some circumstances to constitute injury in fact. In other words, a plaintiff in such a case need not allege any additional harm beyond the one Congress has identified. See Federal Election Comm'n v. Akins, 524 U. S. 11, 20-25 (1998) (confirming that a group of voters' "inability to obtain information" that Congress had decided to make public is a sufficient injury in fact to satisfy Article III); Public Citizen v. Department of Justice, 491 U. S. 440, 449 (1989) (holding that two advocacy organizations' failure to obtain information subject to disclosure under the Federal Advisory Committee Act "constitutes a sufficiently distinct injury to provide standing to sue").     In the context of this particular case, these general principles tell us two things: On the one hand, Congress plainly sought to curb the dissemination of false information by adopting procedures designed to decrease that risk. On the other hand, Robins cannot satisfy the demands of Article III by alleging a bare procedural violation. A violation of one of the FCRA's procedural requirements may result in no harm. For example, even if a consumer reporting agency fails to provide the required notice to a user of the agency's consumer information, that information regardless may be entirely accurate. In addition, not all inaccuracies cause harm or present any material risk of harm. An example that comes readily to mind is an incorrect zip code. It is difficult to imagine how the dissemination of an incorrect zip code, without more, could work any concrete harm.8     Because the Ninth Circuit failed to fully appreciate the distinction between concreteness and particularization, its standing analysis was incomplete. It did not address the question framed by our discussion, namely, whether the particular procedural violations alleged in this case entail a degree of risk sufficient to meet the concreteness requirement. We take no position as to whether the Ninth Circuit's ultimate conclusion--that Robins adequately alleged an injury in fact--was correct.*??*??*     The judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated, and the case is remanded for proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.Thomas, J., concurring?578 U. S. ____ (2016)No. 13-1339SPOKEO, INC., PETITIONER v. THOMAS ROBINSon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[May 16, 2016]     Justice Thomas, concurring.     The Court vacates and remands to have the Court of Appeals determine "whether the particular procedural violations alleged in this case entail a degree of risk sufficient to meet the concreteness requirement." Ante, at 11. In defining what constitutes a concrete injury, the Court explains that "concrete" means " 'real,' " and "not 'abstract,' " but is not "necessarily synonymous with 'tangible.' " Ante, at 8-9.     I join the Court's opinion. I write separately to explain how, in my view, the injury-in-fact requirement applies to different types of rights. The judicial power of common-law courts was historically limited depending on the nature of the plaintiff's suit. Common-law courts more readily entertained suits from private plaintiffs who alleged a violation of their own rights, in contrast to private plaintiffs who asserted claims vindicating public rights. Those limitations persist in modern standing doctrine.IA     Standing doctrine limits the "judicial power" to " 'cases and controversies of the sort traditionally amenable to, and resolved by, the judicial process.' " Vermont Agency of Natural Resources v. United States ex rel. Stevens, 529 U. S. 765, 774 (2000) (quoting Steel Co. v. Citizens for a Better Environment, 523 U. S. 83, 102 (1998)). To understand the limits that standing imposes on "the judicial Power," therefore, we must "refer directly to the traditional, fundamental limitations upon the powers of commonlaw courts." Honig v. Doe, 484 U. S. 305, 340 (1988) (Scalia, J., dissenting). These limitations preserve separation of powers by preventing the judiciary's entanglement in disputes that are primarily political in nature. This concern is generally absent when a private plaintiff seeks to enforce only his personal rights against another private party.     Common-law courts imposed different limitations on a plaintiff's right to bring suit depending on the type of right the plaintiff sought to vindicate. Historically, common-law courts possessed broad power to adjudicate suits involving the alleged violation of private rights, even when plaintiffs alleged only the violation of those rights and nothing more. "Private rights" are rights "belonging to individuals, considered as individuals." 3 W. Blackstone, Commentaries *2 (hereinafter Blackstone). "Private rights" have traditionally included rights of personal security (including security of reputation), property rights, and contract rights. See 1 id., at *130-*139; Woolhander & Nelson, Does History Defeat Standing Doctrine?, 102 Mich. L. Rev. 689, 693 (2004). In a suit for the violation of a private right, courts historically presumed that the plaintiff suffered a de facto injury merely from having his personal, legal rights invaded. Thus, when one man placed his foot on another's property, the property owner needed to show nothing more to establish a traditional case or controversy. See Entick v. Carrington, 2 Wils. K. B. 275, 291, 95 Eng. Rep. 807, 817 (1765). Many traditional remedies for private-rights causes of action--such as for trespass, infringement of intellectual property, and unjust enrichment--are not contingent on a plaintiff's allegation of damages beyond the violation of his private legal right. See Brief for Restitution and Remedies Scholars as Amici Curiae 6-18; see also Webb v. Portland Mfg. Co., 29 F. Cas. 506, 508 (No. 17,322) (Me. 1838) (stating that a legal injury "imports damage in the nature of it" (internal quotation marks omitted)).     Common-law courts, however, have required a further showing of injury for violations of "public rights"--rights that involve duties owed "to the whole community, considered as a community, in its social aggregate capacity." 4 Blackstone *5. Such rights include "free navigation of waterways, passage on public highways, and general compliance with regulatory law." Woolhander & Nelson, 102 Mich. L. Rev., at 693. Generally, only the government had the authority to vindicate a harm borne by the public at large, such as the violation of the criminal laws. See id., at 695-700. Even in limited cases where private plaintiffs could bring a claim for the violation of public rights, they had to allege that the violation caused them "some extraordinary damage, beyond the rest of the [community]." 3 Blackstone *220 (discussing nuisance); see also Commonwealth v. Webb, 27 Va. 726, 729 (Gen. Ct. 1828).1 An action to redress a public nuisance, for example, was historically considered an action to vindicate the violation of a public right at common law, lest "every subject in the kingdom" be able to "harass the offender with separate actions." 3 Blackstone *219; see also 4 id., at *167 (same). But if the plaintiff could allege "special damage" as the result of a nuisance, the suit could proceed. The existence of special, individualized damage had the effect of creating a private action for compensatory relief to an otherwise public-rights claim. See 3 id., at *220. Similarly, a plaintiff had to allege individual damage in disputes over the use of public lands. E.g., Robert Marys's Case, 9 Co. Rep. 111b, 112b, 77 Eng. Rep. 895, 898-899 (K. B. 1613) (commoner must establish not only injuria [legal injury] but also damnum [damage] to challenge another's overgrazing on the commons).B     These differences between legal claims brought by private plaintiffs for the violation of public and private rights underlie modern standing doctrine and explain the Court's description of the injury-in-fact requirement. "Injury in fact" is the first of three "irreducible" requirements for Article III standing. Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 560 (1992). The injury-in-fact requirement often stymies a private plaintiff's attempt to vindicate the infringement of public rights. The Court has said time and again that, when a plaintiff seeks to vindicate a public right, the plaintiff must allege that he has suffered a "concrete" injury particular to himself. See Schlesinger v. Reservists Comm. to Stop the War, 418 U. S. 208, 221-223 (1974) (explaining this where plaintiffs sought to enforce the Incompatibility Clause, Art. I, §6, cl. 2, against Members of Congress holding reserve commissions in the Armed Forces); see also Lujan, supra, at 572-573 (evaluating standing where plaintiffs sought to enforce the Endangered Species Act); Friends of the Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC), Inc., 528 U. S. 167, 183-184 (2000) (Clean Water Act). This requirement applies with special force when a plaintiff files suit to require an executive agency to "follow the law"; at that point, the citizen must prove that he "has sustained or is immediately in danger of sustaining a direct injury as a result of that [challenged] action and it is not sufficient that he has merely a general interest common to all members of the public." Ex parte Levitt, 302 U. S. 633, 634 (1937) ( per curiam). Thus, in a case where private plaintiffs sought to compel the U. S. Forest Service to follow certain procedures when it regulated "small fire-rehabilitation and timber-salvage projects," we held that "deprivation of a procedural right without some concrete interest that is affected by the deprivation . . . is insufficient to create Article III standing," even if "accorded by Congress." Summers v. Earth Island Institute, 555 U. S. 488, 490, 496-497 (2009).     But the concrete-harm requirement does not apply as rigorously when a private plaintiff seeks to vindicate his own private rights. Our contemporary decisions have not required a plaintiff to assert an actual injury beyond the violation of his personal legal rights to satisfy the "injury-in-fact" requirement. See, e.g., Carey v. Piphus, 435 U. S. 247, 266 (1978) (holding that nominal damages are appropriate when a plaintiff's constitutional rights have been infringed but he cannot show further injury).     The separation-of-powers concerns underlying our public-rights decisions are not implicated when private individuals sue to redress violations of their own private rights. But, when they are implicated, standing doctrine keeps courts out of political disputes by denying private litigants the right to test the abstract legality of government action. See Schlesinger, supra, at 222. And by limiting Congress' ability to delegate law enforcement authority to private plaintiffs and the courts, standing doctrine preserves executive discretion. See Lujan, supra, at 577 (" 'To permit Congress to convert the undifferentiated public interest in executive officers' compliance with the law into an 'individual right' vindicable in the courts is to permit Congress to transfer from the President to the courts the Chief Executive's most important constitutional duty, to 'take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed' "). But where one private party has alleged that another private party violated his private rights, there is generally no danger that the private party's suit is an impermissible attempt to police the activity of the political branches or, more broadly, that the legislative branch has impermissibly delegated law enforcement authority from the executive to a private individual. See Hessick, Standing, Injury in Fact, and Private Rights, 93 Cornell L. Rev. 275, 317-321 (2008).C     When Congress creates new private causes of action to vindicate private or public rights, these Article III principles circumscribe federal courts' power to adjudicate a suit alleging the violation of those new legal rights. Congress can create new private rights and authorize private plaintiffs to sue based simply on the violation of those private rights. See Warth v. Seldin, 422 U. S. 490, 500 (1975). A plaintiff seeking to vindicate a statutorily created private right need not allege actual harm beyond the invasion of that private right. See Havens Realty Corp. v. Coleman, 455 U. S. 363, 373-374 (1982) (recognizing standing for a violation of the Fair Housing Act); Tennessee Elec. Power Co. v. TVA, 306 U. S. 118, 137-138 (1939) (recognizing that standing can exist where "the right invaded is a legal right,--one of property, one arising out of contract, one protected against tortious invasion, or one founded on a statute which confers a privilege"). A plaintiff seeking to vindicate a public right embodied in a federal statute, however, must demonstrate that the violation of that public right has caused him a concrete, individual harm distinct from the general population. See Lujan, supra, at 578 (noting that, whatever the scope of Congress' power to create new legal rights, "it is clear that in suits against the Government, at least, the concrete injury requirement must remain"). Thus, Congress cannot authorize private plaintiffs to enforce public rights in their own names, absent some showing that the plaintiff has suffered a concrete harm particular to him.II     Given these principles, I agree with the Court's decision to vacate and remand. The Fair Credit Reporting Act creates a series of regulatory duties. Robins has no standing to sue Spokeo, in his own name, for violations of the duties that Spokeo owes to the public collectively, absent some showing that he has suffered concrete and particular harm. See supra, at 4-5. These consumer protection requirements include, for example, the requirement to "post a toll-free telephone number on [Spokeo's] website through which consumers can request free annual file disclosures." App. 23, First Amended Complaint ¶74; see 15 U. S. C. §1681j; 16 CFR §610.3(a)(1) (2010).     But a remand is required because one claim in Robins' complaint rests on a statutory provision that could arguably establish a private cause of action to vindicate the violation of a privately held right. Section 1681e(b) requires Robins to "follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of the information concerning the individual about whom the report relates." §1681e(b) (emphasis added). If Congress has created a private duty owed personally to Robins to protect his information, then the violation of the legal duty suffices for Article III injury in fact. If that provision, however, vests any and all consumers with the power to police the "reasonable procedures" of Spokeo, without more, then Robins has no standing to sue for its violation absent an allegation that he has suffered individualized harm. On remand, the Court of Appeals can consider the nature of this claim.Ginsburg, J., dissenting?578 U. S. ____ (2016)No. 13-1339SPOKEO, INC., PETITIONER v. THOMAS ROBINSon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[May 16, 2016]     Justice Ginsburg, with whom Justice Sotomayor joins, dissenting.     In the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970 (FCRA or Act), 15 U. S. C. §1681 et seq., Congress required consumer reporting agencies, whenever preparing a consumer report, to "follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of the information concerning the individual about whom the report relates." §1681e(b). To promote adherence to the Act's procedural requirements, Congress granted adversely affected consumers a right to sue noncomplying reporting agencies. §1681n (willful noncompliance); §1681o (negligent noncompliance).1 Thomas Robins instituted suit against Spokeo, Inc., alleging that Spokeo was a reporting agency governed by the FCRA, and that Spokeo maintains on its Web site an inaccurate consumer report about Robins. App. 13.     In particular, Robins alleged that Spokeo posted "a picture . . . purport[ing] to be an image of Robins [that] was not in fact [of him]," and incorrectly reported that Robins "was in his 50s, . . . married, . . . employed in a professional or technical field, and . . . has children." Id., at 14. Robins further alleged that Spokeo's profile of him continues to misrepresent "that he has a graduate degree, that his economic health is 'Very Strong[,]' and that his wealth level [is in] the 'Top 10%.' " Ibid. Spokeo displayed that erroneous information, Robins asserts, when he was "out of work" and "actively seeking employment." Ibid. Because of the misinformation, Robins stated, he encountered "[imminent and ongoing] actual harm to [his] employment prospects." Ibid.2 As Robins elaborated on brief, Spokeo's report made him appear overqualified for jobs he might have gained, expectant of a higher salary than employers would be willing to pay, and less mobile because of family responsibilities. See Brief for Respondent 44.     I agree with much of the Court's opinion. Robins, the Court holds, meets the particularity requirement for standing under Article III. See ante, at 8, 11 (remanding only for concreteness inquiry). The Court acknowledges that Congress has the authority to confer rights and delineate claims for relief where none existed before. Ante, at 9; see Federal Election Comm'n v. Akins, 524 U. S. 11, 19-20 (1998) (holding that inability to procure information to which Congress has created a right in the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 qualifies as concrete injury satisfying Article III's standing requirement); Public Citizen v. Department of Justice, 491 U. S. 440, 449 (1989) (holding that plaintiff advocacy organizations' inability to obtain information that Congress made subject to disclosure under the Federal Advisory Committee Act "constitutes a sufficiently distinct injury to provide standing to sue"); Havens Realty Corp. v. Coleman, 455 U. S. 363, 373 (1982) (identifying, as Article III injury, violation of plaintiff's right, secured by the Fair Housing Act, to "truthful information concerning the availability of housing").3 Congress' connection of procedural requirements to the prevention of a substantive harm, the Court appears to agree, is "instructive and important." Ante, at 9; see Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 580 (1992) (Kennedy, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) ("As Government programs and policies become more complex and far reaching, we must be sensitive to the articulation of new rights of action . . . ."); Brief for Restitution and Remedies Scholars et al. as Amici Curiae 3 ("Congress cannot authorize individual plaintiffs to enforce generalized rights that belong to the whole public. But Congress can create new individual rights, and it can enact effective remedies for those rights."). See generally Sunstein, Informational Regulation and Informational Standing: Akins and Beyond, 147 U. Pa. L. Rev. 613 (1999).     I part ways with the Court, however, on the necessity of a remand to determine whether Robins' particularized injury was "concrete." See ante, at 11. Judged by what we have said about "concreteness," Robins' allegations carry him across the threshold. The Court's opinion observes that time and again, our decisions have coupled the words "concrete and particularized." Ante, at 8 (citing as examples, Susan B. Anthony List v. Driehaus, 573 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 8); Summers v. Earth Island Institute, 555 U. S. 488, 493 (2009); Sprint Communications Co. v. APCC Services, Inc., 554 U. S. 269, 274 (2008); Massachusetts v. EPA, 549 U. S. 497, 517 (2007)). True, but true too, in the four cases cited by the Court, and many others, opinions do not discuss the separate offices of the terms "concrete" and "particularized."     Inspection of the Court's decisions suggests that the particularity requirement bars complaints raising generalized grievances, seeking relief that no more benefits the plaintiff than it does the public at large. See, e.g., Lujan, 504 U. S., at 573-574 (a plaintiff "seeking relief that no more directly and tangibly benefits him than it does the public at large does not state an Article III case or controversy" (punctuation omitted)); Perkins v. Lukens Steel Co., 310 U. S. 113, 125 (1940) (plaintiffs lack standing because they failed to show injury to "a particular right of their own, as distinguished from the public's interest in the administration of the law"). Robins' claim does not present a question of that character. He seeks redress, not for harm to the citizenry, but for Spokeo's spread of misinformation specifically about him.     Concreteness as a discrete requirement for standing, the Court's decisions indicate, refers to the reality of an injury, harm that is real, not abstract, but not necessarily tangible. See ante, at 8-9; ante, at 1 (Thomas, J., concurring). Illustrative opinions include Akins, 524 U. S., at 20 ("[C]ourts will not pass upon abstract, intellectual problems, but adjudicate concrete, living contests between adversaries." (internal quotation marks and alterations omitted)); Diamond v. Charles, 476 U. S. 54, 67 (1986) (plaintiff's "abstract concern does not substitute for the concrete injury required by Art[icle] III" (internal quotation marks and ellipsis omitted)); Los Angeles v. Lyons, 461 U. S. 95, 101 (1983) ("Plaintiffs must demonstrate a personal stake in the outcome . . . . Abstract injury is not enough." (internal quotation marks omitted)); Babbitt v. Farm Workers, 442 U. S. 289, 297-298 (1979) ("The difference between an abstract question and a 'case or controversy' is one of degree, of course, and is not discernable by any precise test. The basic inquiry is whether the conflicting contentions of the parties present a real, substantial controversy between parties having adverse legal interests, a dispute definite and concrete, not hypothetical or abstract." (citation, some internal quotation marks, and ellipsis omitted)); Simon v. Eastern Ky. Welfare Rights Organization, 426 U. S. 26, 40 (1976) ("organization's abstract concern . . . does not substitute for the concrete injury required by Art. III"); California Bankers Assn. v. Shultz, 416 U. S. 21, 69 (1974) ("There must be . . . concrete adverseness"; "[a]bstract injury is not enough." (internal quotation marks omitted)); Railway Mail Assn. v. Corsi, 326 U. S. 88, 93 (1945) (controversy must be "definite and concrete, not hypothetical or abstract"); Coleman v. Miller, 307 U. S. 433, 460 (1939) (opinion of Frankfurter, J.) ("[I]t [is] not for courts to pass upon . . . abstract, intellectual problems but only . . . concrete, living contest[s] between adversaries call[ing] for the arbitrament of law.").     Robins would not qualify, the Court observes, if he alleged a "bare" procedural violation, ante, at 10, one that results in no harm, for example, "an incorrect zip code," ante, at 11. Far from an incorrect zip code, Robins complains of misinformation about his education, family situation, and economic status, inaccurate representations that could affect his fortune in the job market. See Brief for Center for Democracy & Technology et al. as Amici Curiae 13 (Spokeo's inaccuracies bore on Robins' "ability to find employment by creating the erroneous impression that he was overqualified for the work he was seeking, that he might be unwilling to relocate for a job due to family commitments, or that his salary demands would exceed what prospective employers were prepared to offer him."); Brief for Restitution and Remedies Scholars et al. as Amici Curiae 35 ("An applicant can lose [a] job for being over-qualified; a suitor can lose a woman if she reads that he is married."). The FCRA's procedural requirements aimed to prevent such harm. See 115 Cong. Rec. 2410-2415 (1969). I therefore see no utility in returning this case to the Ninth Circuit to underscore what Robins' complaint already conveys concretely: Spokeo's misinformation "cause[s] actual harm to [his] employment prospects." App. 14.*??*??*     For the reasons stated, I would affirm the Ninth Circuit's judgment.FOOTNOTESThe Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (BAPCPA) amended the Bankruptcy Code to define a class of bankruptcy professionals termed "debt relief agenc[ies]." 11 U. S. C. §101(12A). That class includes, with limited exceptions, "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person ... for ... payment ... , or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." Ibid. The BAPCPA prohibits such professionals from "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt in contemplation of [filing for bankruptcy] ... ." §526(a)(4). It also requires them to disclose in their advertisements for certain services that the services are with respect to or may involve bankruptcy relief, §§528(a)(3), (b)(2)(A), and to identify themselves as debt relief agencies, §§528(a)(4), (b)(2)(B).          The plaintiffs in this litigation--a law firm and others (collectively Milavetz)--filed a preenforcement suit seeking declaratory relief, arguing that Milavetz is not bound by the BAPCPA's debt-relief-agency provisions and therefore can freely advise clients to incur additional debt and need not make the requisite disclosures in its advertisements. The District Court found that "debt relief agency" does not include attorneys and that §§526 and 528 are unconstitutional as applied to that class of professionals. The Eighth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part, rejecting the District Court's conclusion that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]"; upholding application of §528's disclosure requirements to attorneys; and finding §526(a)(4) unconstitutional because it broadly prohibits debt relief agencies from advising assisted persons to incur any additional debt in contemplation of bankruptcy even when the advice constitutes prudent prebankruptcy planning.Held:     1. Attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are debt relief agencies under the BAPCPA. By definition, "bankruptcy assistance" includes several services commonly performed by attorneys, e.g., providing "advice, counsel, [or] document preparation," §101(4A). Moreover, in enumerating specific exceptions to the debt-relief-agency definition, Congress indicated no intent to exclude attorneys. See §§101(12A)(A)-(E). Milavetz relies on the fact that §101(12A) does not expressly include attorneys in advocating a narrower understanding. On that reading, only a bankruptcy petition preparer would qualify--an implausibility given that a "debt relief agency" is "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance ... or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer," ibid. Milavetz's other arguments for excluding attorneys are also unpersuasive. Pp. 5-9.     2. Section 526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising a debtor to incur more debt because the debtor is filing for bankruptcy, rather than for a valid purpose. The statute's language, together with its purpose, makes a narrow reading of §526(a)(4) the natural one. Conrad, Rubin & Lesser v. Pender, 289 U. S. 472, supports this conclusion. The Court in that case read now-repealed §96(d), which authorized reexamination of a debtor's attorney's fees payment "in contemplation of the filing of a petition," to require that the portended bankruptcy have "induce[d]" the transfer at issue, id., at 477, understanding inducement to engender suspicion of abuse. The Court identified the "controlling question" as "whether the thought of bankruptcy was the impelling cause of the transaction," ibid. Given the substantial similarities between §§96(d) and 526(a)(4), the controlling question under the latter is likewise whether the impelling reason for "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt" was the prospect of filing for bankruptcy. In practice, advice impelled by the prospect of filing will generally consist of advice to "load up" on debt with the expectation of obtaining its discharge. The statutory context supports the conclusion that §526(a)(4)'s prohibition primarily targets this type of conduct. The Court rejects Milavetz's arguments for a more expansive view of §526(a)(4) and its claim that the provision, narrowly construed, is impermissibly vague. Pp. 9-18.     3. Section 528's disclosure requirements are valid as applied to Milavetz. Consistent with Milavetz's characterization, the Court presumes that this is an as-applied challenge. Because §528 is directed at misleading commercial speech and imposes only a disclosure requirement rather than an affirmative limitation on speech, the less exacting scrutiny set out in Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626, governs. There, the Court found that, while unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements offend the First Amendment, "an advertiser's rights are adequately protected as long as disclosure requirements are reasonably related to the State's interest in preventing deception of consumers." Id., at 651. Section 528's requirements share the essential features of the rule challenged in Zauderer. The disclosures are intended to combat the problem of inherently misleading commercial advertisements, and they entail only an accurate statement of the advertiser's legal status and the character of the assistance provided. Moreover, they do not prevent debt relief agencies from conveying any additional information through their advertisements. In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191, distinguished. Because §528's requirements are "reasonably related" to the Government's interest in preventing consumer deception, the Court upholds those provisions as applied to Milavetz. Pp. 18-23.541 F. 3d 785, affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.     Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Stevens, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, and Alito, JJ., joined, in which Scalia, J., joined except for n. 3, and in which Thomas, J., joined except for Part III-C. Scalia, J., and Thomas, J., filed opinions concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.     Congress enacted the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (BAPCPA or Act) to correct perceived abuses of the bankruptcy system. Among the reform measures the Act implemented are a number of provisions that regulate the conduct of "debt relief agenc[ies]"--i.e., professionals who provide bankruptcy assistance to consumer debtors. See 11 U. S. C. §§101(3), (12A). These consolidated cases present the threshold question whether attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services. Because we agree with the Court of Appeals that they are, we must also consider whether the Act's provisions governing debt relief agencies' advice to clients, §526(a)(4), and requiring them to make certain disclosures in their advertisements, §§528(a) and (b)(2), violate the First Amendment rights of attorneys. Concluding that the Court of Appeals construed §526(a)(4) too expansively, we reverse its judgment that the provision is unconstitutionally overbroad. Like the Court of Appeals, we uphold §528's disclosure requirements as applied in these consolidated cases.I     In order to improve bankruptcy law and practice, Congress enacted through the BAPCPA a number of provisions directed at the conduct of bankruptcy professionals. Some of these measures apply to the broad class of bankruptcy professionals termed "debt relief agenc[ies]." That category includes, with limited exceptions, "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person in return for ... payment ... , or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." §101(12A).1 "Bankruptcy assistance" refers to goods or services "provided to an assisted person with the express or implied purpose of providing information, advice, counsel, document preparation, or filing, or attendance at a creditors' meeting or appearing in a case or proceeding on behalf of another or providing legal representation with respect to a case or proceeding" in bankruptcy. §101(4A). An "assisted person" is someone with limited nonexempt property whose debts consist primarily of consumer debts. §101(3). The BAPCPA subjects debt relief agencies to a number of restrictions and requirements, as set forth in §§526, 527, and 528. As relevant here, §526(a) establishes several rules of professional conduct for persons qualifying as debt relief agencies. Among them, §526(a)(4) states that a debt relief agency shall not "advise an assisted person ... to incur more debt in contemplation of such person filing a case under this title or to pay an attorney or bankruptcy petition preparer fee or charge for services performed as part of preparing for or representing a debtor in a case under this title."     Section 528 requires qualifying professionals to include certain disclosures in their advertisements. Subsection (a) provides that debt relief agencies must "clearly and conspicuously disclose in any advertisement of bankruptcy assistance services or of the benefits of bankruptcy directed to the general public ... that the services or benefits are with respect to bankruptcy relief under this title." §528(a)(3). It also requires them to include the following, "or a substantially similar statement": "We are a debt relief agency. We help people file for bankruptcy relief under the Bankruptcy Code." §528(a)(4). Subsection (b) requires essentially the same disclosures in advertisements "indicating that the debt relief agency provides assistance with respect to credit defaults, mortgage foreclosures, eviction proceedings, excessive debt, debt collection pressure, or inability to pay any consumer debt." §528(b)(2). Debt relief agencies advertising such services must disclose "that the assistance may involve bankruptcy relief," §528(b)(2)(A), and must identify themselves as "debt relief agenc[ies]" as required by §528(a)(4), see §528(b)(2)(B).II     The plaintiffs in this litigation--the law firm Milavetz, Gallop & Milavetz, P. A.; the firm's president, Robert J. Milavetz; a bankruptcy attorney at the firm, Barbara Nilva Nevin; and two of the firm's clients (collectively Milavetz)--filed a preenforcement suit in Federal District Court seeking declaratory relief with respect to the Act's debt-relief-agency provisions. Milavetz asked the court to hold that it is not bound by these provisions and thus may freely advise clients to incur additional debt and need not identify itself as a debt relief agency in its advertisements.     Milavetz first argued that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]" as that term is used in the BAPCPA. In the alternative, Milavetz sought a judgment that §§526(a)(4) and 528(a)(4) and (b)(2) are unconstitutional as applied to attorneys. The District Court agreed with Milavetz that the term "debt relief agency" does not include attorneys, App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 08-1119, p. A-15, but only after finding that §§526 and 528--provisions expressly applicable only to debt relief agencies--are unconstitutional as applied to this class of professionals.     The Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part. 541 F. 3d 785 (2008). Relying on the Act's plain language, the court unanimously rejected the District Court's conclusion that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]" within the meaning of the Act. The Court of Appeals also parted ways with the District Court concerning the constitutionality of §528. Concluding that the disclosures are intended to prevent consumer deception and are "reasonably related" to that interest, the court upheld the application of §528's disclosure requirements to attorneys. Id., at 796-797 (citing Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626, 651 (1985)).     A majority of the Eighth Circuit panel, however, agreed with the District Court that §526(a)(4) is invalid. Determining that §526(a)(4) "broadly prohibits a debt relief agency from advising an assisted person ... to incur any additional debt when the assisted person is contemplating bankruptcy," even when that advice constitutes prudent prebankruptcy planning not intended to abuse the bankruptcy laws, 541 F. 3d, at 793, the majority held that §526(a)(4) could not withstand either strict or intermediate scrutiny. In dissent, Judge Colloton argued that §526(a)(4) should be read narrowly to prevent only advice to abuse the bankruptcy system, noting that this construction would avoid most constitutional difficulties. See id., at 799 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part).     In light of a conflict among the Courts of Appeals,2 we granted certiorari to resolve the question of §526(a)(4)'s scope. 556 U. S. ___ (2009). We also agreed to consider the threshold question whether attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are "debt relief agenc[ies]" within the meaning of §101(12A) and the related question whether §528's disclosure requirements are constitutional.IIIA     We first consider whether the term "debt relief agency" includes attorneys. If it does not, we need not reach the other questions presented, as §§526 and 528 govern only the conduct of debt relief agencies, and Milavetz challenges the validity of those provisions based on their application to attorneys. The Government contends that "debt relief agency" plainly includes attorneys, while Milavetz urges that it does not. We conclude that the Government has the better view.     As already noted, a debt relief agency is "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person" in return for payment. §101(12A). By definition, "bankruptcy assistance" includes several services commonly performed by attorneys. Indeed, some forms of bankruptcy assistance, including the "provi[sion of] legal representation with respect to a case or proceeding," §101(4A), may be provided only by attorneys. See §110(e)(2) (prohibiting bankruptcy petition preparers from providing legal advice). Moreover, in enumerating specific exceptions to the definition of debt relief agency, Congress gave no indication that it intended to exclude attorneys. See §§101(12A)(A)-(E). Thus, as the Government contends, the statutory text clearly indicates that attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services to assisted persons.3     In advocating a narrower understanding of that term, Milavetz relies heavily on the fact that §101(12A) does not expressly include attorneys. That omission stands in contrast, it argues, to the provision's explicit inclusion of "bankruptcy petition preparer[s]"--a category of professionals that excludes attorneys and their staff, see §110(a)(1). But Milavetz does not contend, nor could it credibly, that only professionals expressly included in the definition are debt relief agencies. On that reading, no professional other than a bankruptcy petition preparer would qualify--an implausible reading given that the statute defines "debt relief agency" as "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person ... or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." §101(12A) (emphasis added). The provision's silence regarding attorneys thus avails Milavetz little. Cf. Heintz v. Jenkins, 514 U. S. 291, 294 (1995) (holding that "debt collector" as used in the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, 15 U. S. C. §1692a(6), includes attorneys notwithstanding the definition's lack of an express reference to lawyers or litigation).     Milavetz's other arguments for excluding attorneys similarly fail to persuade us to disregard the statute's plain language. Milavetz contends that 11 U. S. C. §526(d)(2)'s instruction that §§526, 527, and 528 should not "be deemed to limit or curtail" States' authority to "determine and enforce qualifications for the practice of law" counsels against reading "debt relief agency" to include attorneys, as the surest way to protect the States' role in regulating the legal profession is to make the BAPCPA's professional conduct rules inapplicable to lawyers. We find that §526(d)(2) supports the opposite conclusion, as Congress would have had no reason to enact that provision if the debt-relief-agency provisions did not apply to attorneys. Milavetz's broader claim that reading §101(12A) to include attorneys impermissibly trenches on an area of traditional state regulation also lacks merit. Congress and the bankruptcy courts have long overseen aspects of attorney conduct in this area of substantial federal concern. See, e.g., Conrad, Rubin & Lesser v. Pender, 289 U. S. 472, 477-479 (1933) (finding broad authorization in former §96(d) (1934 ed.) (repealed 1978) for courts to examine the reasonableness of a debtor's prepetition attorney's fees).     Milavetz next argues that §101(12A)'s exception for any "officer, director, employee, or agent of a person who provides" bankruptcy assistance is revealing for its failure to include "partners." §101(12A)(A). In light of that omission, it contends, treating attorneys as debt relief agencies will obligate entire law firms to comply with §§526, 527, and 528 based on the conduct of a single partner, while the agents and employees of debt relief agencies not typically organized as partnerships are shielded from those requirements. Given that the partnership structure is not unique to law firms, however, it is unclear why the exclusion would be revealing of Congress' intent only with respect to attorneys. In any event, partnerships are themselves "person[s]" under the BAPCPA, see §101(41), and can qualify as "debt relief agenc[ies]" when they meet the criteria set forth in §101(12A). Moreover, a partnership's employees and agents are exempted from §101(12A) in the same way as the employees and agents of other organizations. To the extent that partners may be subject to the debt-relief-agency provisions by association, that result is consistent with the joint responsibilities that typically flow from the partnership structure, cf. Strang v. Bradner, 114 U. S. 555, 561 (1885). Accordingly, we decline to attribute the significance Milavetz suggests to §101(12A)(A)'s failure to include partners among the exempted actors.4     All else failing, Milavetz urges that the canon of constitutional avoidance requires us to read "debt relief agency" to exclude attorneys in order to forestall serious doubts as to the validity of §§526 and 528. The avoidance canon, however, "is a tool for choosing between competing plausible interpretations of a statutory text." Clark v. Martinez, 543 U. S. 371, 381 (2005). In applying that tool, we will consider only those constructions of a statute that are " 'fairly possible.' " United States v. Security Industrial Bank, 459 U. S. 70, 78 (1982). For the reasons already discussed, the text and statutory context of §101(12A) foreclose a reading of "debt relief agency" that excludes attorneys. Accordingly, we hold that attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are debt relief agencies within the meaning of the BAPCPA.B     Having concluded that attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services, we next address the scope and validity of §526(a)(4). Characterizing the statute as a broad, content-based restriction on attorney-client communications that is not adequately tailored to constrain only speech the Government has a substantial interest in restricting, the Eighth Circuit found the rule substantially overbroad. 541 F. 3d, at 793-794, and n. 10. For the reasons that follow, we reject that conclusion.     Section 526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency from "advis[ing] an assisted person" either "to incur more debt in contemplation of" filing for bankruptcy "or to pay an attorney or bankruptcy petition preparer fee or charge for services" performed in preparation for filing. Only the first of these prohibitions is at issue. In debating the correctness of the Court of Appeals' decision, the parties first dispute the provision's scope. The Court of Appeals concluded that "§526(a)(4) broadly prohibits a debt relief agency from advising an assisted person ... to incur any additional debt when the assisted person is contemplating bankruptcy." Id., at 793. Under that reading, an attorney is prohibited from providing all manner of "beneficial advice--even if the advice could help the assisted person avoid filing for bankruptcy altogether." Ibid.     Agreeing with the Court of Appeals, Milavetz contends that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency from advising a client to incur any new debt while considering whether to file for bankruptcy. Construing the provision more broadly still, Milavetz contends that §526(a)(4) forbids not only affirmative advice but also any discussion of the advantages, disadvantages, or legality of incurring more debt. Like the panel majority's, Milavetz's reading rests primarily on its view that the ordinary meaning of the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy encompasses any advice given to a debtor with the awareness that he might soon file for bankruptcy, even if the advice seeks to obviate the need to file. Milavetz also maintains that if §526(a)(4) were construed more narrowly, as urged by the Government and the dissent below, it would be so vague as to inevitably chill some protected speech.     The Government continues to advocate a narrower construction of the statute, urging that Milavetz's reading is untenable and that its vagueness concerns are misplaced. The Government contends that §526(a)(4)'s restriction on advice to incur more debt "in contemplation of" bankruptcy is most naturally read to forbid only advice to undertake actions to abuse the bankruptcy system. Focusing first on the provision's text, the Government points to sources indicating that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy has long been, and continues to be, associated with abusive conduct. For instance, Black's Law Dictionary 336 (8th ed. 2004) (hereinafter Black's) defines "contemplation of bankruptcy" as "[t]he thought of declaring bankruptcy because of the inability to continue current financial operations, often coupled with action designed to thwart the distribution of assets in a bankruptcy proceeding." Use of the phrase by Members of Congress illustrates that traditional coupling. See, e.g., S. Rep. No. 98-65, p. 9 (1983) (discussing the practice of " 'loading up' [on debt] in contemplation of bankruptcy"); Report of the Commission on the Bankruptcy Laws of the United States, H. R. Doc. No. 93-137, pt. I, p. 11 (1973) ("[T]he most serious abuse of consumer bankruptcy is the number of instances in which individuals have purchased a sizable quantity of goods and services on credit on the eve of bankruptcy in contemplation of obtaining a discharge"). The Government also points to early American and English judicial decisions to corroborate its contention that "in contemplation of" bankruptcy signifies abusive conduct. See, e.g., In re Pearce, 19 F. Cas. 50, 53 (No. 10,873) (D. Vt. 1843); Morgan v. Brundrett, 5 B. Ad. 288, 296-297, 110 Eng. Rep. 798, 801 (K. B. 1833) (Parke, J.).     To bolster its textual claim, the Government relies on §526(a)(4)'s immediate context. According to the Government, the other three subsections of §526(a) are designed to protect debtors from abusive practices by debt relief agencies: §526(a)(1) requires debt relief agencies to perform all promised services; §526(a)(2) prohibits them from making or advising debtors to make false or misleading statements in bankruptcy; and §526(a)(3) prohibits them from misleading debtors regarding the costs or benefits of bankruptcy. When §526(a)(4) is read in context of these debtor-protective provisions, the Government argues, construing it to prevent debt relief agencies from giving advice that is beneficial to both debtors and their creditors seems particularly nonsensical.     Finally, the Government contends that the BAPCPA's remedies for violations of §526(a)(4) similarly corroborate its narrow reading. Section 526(c) provides remedies for a debt relief agency's violation of §526, §527, or §528. Among the actions authorized, a debtor may sue the attorney for remittal of fees, actual damages, and reasonable attorney's fees and costs; a state attorney general may sue for a resident's actual damages; and a court finding intentional abuse may impose an appropriate civil penalty. §526(c). The Government also relies on the Fifth Circuit's decision in Hersh v. United States ex rel. Mukasey, 553 F. 3d 743 (2008), and Judge Colloton's dissent below for the observation that "Congress's emphasis on actual damages for violations of section 526(a)(4) strongly suggests that Congress viewed that section as aimed at advice to debtors which if followed would have a significant risk of harming the debtor." Id., at 760; see 541 F. 3d, at 800 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part). By contrast, "legal and appropriate advice that would be protected by the First Amendment, yet prohibited by a broad reading of §526(a)(4), should cause no damage at all." Ibid.; see Hersh, 541 F. 3d, at 760.     Milavetz contends that the Government's sources actually undermine its claim that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy necessarily refers to abusive conduct. Specifically, Milavetz argues that these authorities illustrate that "in contemplation of" bankruptcy is a neutral phrase that only implies abusive conduct when attached to an additional, proscriptive term. As Black's states, the phrase is "often coupled with action designed to thwart the distribution of assets" in bankruptcy, Black's 336 (emphasis added), but it carries no independent connotation of abuse. In support of that conclusion, Milavetz relies on our decision in Pender, 289 U. S. 472, contending that we construed "in contemplation of" bankruptcy in that case to describe "conduct with a view to a probable bankruptcy filing and nothing more." Brief for Milavetz 61.     After reviewing these competing claims, we are persuaded that a narrower reading of §526(a)(4) is sounder, although we do not adopt precisely the view the Government advocates. The Government's sources show that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy has so commonly been associated with abusive conduct that it may readily be understood to prefigure abuse. As used in §526(a)(4), however, we think the phrase refers to a specific type of misconduct designed to manipulate the protections of the bankruptcy system. In light of our decision in Pender, and in context of other sections of the Code, we conclude that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising a debtor to incur more debt because the debtor is filing for bankruptcy, rather than for a valid purpose.     Pender addressed the meaning of former §96(d), which authorized reexamination of a debtor's payment of attorney's fees "in contemplation of the filing of a petition." Recognizing " 'the temptation of a failing debtor to deal too liberally with his property in enabling counsel to protect him,' " 289 U. S., at 478 (quoting In re Wood & Henderson, 210 U. S. 246, 253 (1908)), we read "in contemplation of ... filing" in that context to require that the portended bankruptcy have "induce[d]" the transfer at issue, 289 U. S., at 477, understanding inducement to engender suspicion of abuse. In so construing the statute, we identified the "controlling question" as "whether the thought of bankruptcy was the impelling cause of the transaction." Ibid. Given the substantial similarities between §§96(d) and 526(a)(4), we think the controlling question under the latter provision is likewise whether the impelling reason for "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt" was the prospect of filing for bankruptcy.     To be sure, there are relevant differences between the provision at issue in Pender and the one now under review. Most notably, the inquiry in Pender was as to payments made on the eve of bankruptcy, whereas §526(a)(4) regards advice to incur additional debts. Consistent with that difference, under §96(d) a finding that a payment was made "in contemplation of" filing resolved only a threshold inquiry triggering further review of the reasonableness of the payment; the finding thus supported an inference of abuse but did not conclusively establish it. By contrast, advice to incur more debt because of bankruptcy, as prohibited by §526(a)(4), will generally consist of advice to "load up" on debt with the expectation of obtaining its discharge--i.e., conduct that is abusive per se.     The statutory context supports the conclusion that §526(a)(4)'s prohibition primarily targets this type of abuse. Code provisions predating the BAPCPA already sought to prevent the practice of loading up on debt prior to filing. Section 523(a)(2), for instance, addressed the attendant risk of manipulation by preventing the discharge of debts obtained by false pretenses and making debts for purchases of luxury goods or services presumptively nondischargeable. See §§523(a)(2)(A) and (C) (2000 ed.). The BAPCPA increased the risk of such abuse, however, by providing a new mechanism for determining a debtor's ability to repay. Pursuant to the "means tes[t]," §707(b)(2)(D) (2006 ed.), a debtor's petition for Chapter 7 relief is presumed abusive (and may therefore be dismissed or converted to a structured repayment plan under Chapter 13) if the debtor's current monthly income exceeds his statutorily allowed expenses, including payments for secured debt, by more than a prescribed amount. See §§707(b)(2)(A)(i)-(iv). The test promotes debtor accountability but also enhances incentives to incur additional debt prior to filing, as payments on secured debts offset a debtor's monthly income under the formula. Other amendments effected by the BAPCPA reflect a concern with this practice. For instance, Congress amended §523(a)(2) to expand the exceptions to discharge by lowering the threshold amount of new debt a debtor must assume to trigger the presumption of abuse under §523(a)(2)(C), and it extended the relevant prefiling window. See §310, 119 Stat. 84. In context, §526(a)(4) is best understood to provide an additional safeguard against the practice of loading up on debt prior to filing.     The Government's contextual arguments provide additional support for the view that §526(a)(4) was meant to prevent this type of conduct. The companion rules of professional conduct in §§526(a)(1)-(3) and the remedies for their violation in §526(c) indicate that Congress was concerned with actions that threaten to harm debtors or creditors. Unlike the reasonable financial advice the Eighth Circuit's broad reading would proscribe, advice to incur more debt because of bankruptcy presents a substantial risk of injury to both debtors and creditors. See Hersh, 553 F. 3d, at 760-761. Specifically, the incurrence of such debt stands to harm a debtor if his prepetition conduct leads a court to hold his debts nondischargable, see §523(a)(2), convert his case to another chapter, or dismiss it altogether, see §707(b), thereby defeating his effort to obtain bankruptcy relief. If a debt, although manipulatively incurred, is not timely identified as abusive and therefore is discharged, creditors will suffer harm as a result of the discharge and the consequent dilution of the bankruptcy estate. By contrast, the prudent advice that the Eighth Circuit's view of the statute forbids would likely benefit both debtors and creditors and at the very least should cause no harm. See id., at 760; 541 F. 3d, at 800 (Colloton, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). For all of these reasons, we conclude that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising an assisted person to incur more debt when the impelling reason for the advice is the anticipation of bankruptcy.     That "[n]o other solution yields as sensible a" result further persuades us of the correctness of this narrow reading. United States v. Granderson, 511 U. S. 39, 55 (1994). It would make scant sense to prevent attorneys and other debt relief agencies from advising individuals thinking of filing for bankruptcy about options that would be beneficial to both those individuals and their creditors. That construction serves none of the purposes of the Bankruptcy Code or the amendments enacted through the BAPCPA. Milavetz itself acknowledges that its expansive view of §526(a)(4) would produce absurd results; that is one of its bases for arguing that "debt relief agency" should be construed to exclude attorneys. Because the language and context of §526(a)(4) evidence a more targeted purpose, we can avoid the absurdity of which Milavetz complains without reaching the result it advocates.     For the same reason, we reject Milavetz's suggestion that §526(a)(4) broadly prohibits debt relief agencies from discussing covered subjects instead of merely proscribing affirmative advice to undertake a particular action. Section 526(a)(4) by its terms prevents debt relief agencies only from "advis[ing]" assisted persons "to incur" more debt. Covered professionals remain free to "tal[k] fully and candidly about the incurrence of debt in contemplation of filing a bankruptcy case." Brief for Milavetz 73. Section 526(a)(4) requires professionals only to avoid instructing or encouraging assisted persons to take on more debt in that circumstance. Cf. ABA Model Rule of Professional Conduct 1.2(d) (2009) ("A lawyer shall not counsel a client to engage, or assist a client, in conduct that the lawyer knows is criminal or fraudulent, but a lawyer may discuss the legal consequences of any proposed course of conduct with a client and may counsel or assist a client to make a good faith effort to determine the validity, scope, meaning or application of the law"). Even if the statute were not clear in this regard, we would reach the same conclusion about its scope because the inhibition of frank discussion serves no conceivable purpose within the statutory scheme. Cf. Johnson v. United States, 529 U. S. 694, 706, n. 9 (2000).5     Finally, we reject Milavetz's contention that, narrowly construed, §526(a)(4) is impermissibly vague. Milavetz urges that the concept of abusive prefiling conduct is too indefinite to withstand constitutional scrutiny and that uncertainty regarding the scope of the prohibition will chill protected speech. We disagree.     Under our reading of the statute, of course, the prohibited advice is not defined in terms of abusive prefiling conduct but rather the incurrence of additional debt when the impelling reason is the anticipation of bankruptcy. Even if the test depended upon the notion of abuse, however, Milavetz's claim would be fatally undermined by other provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, to which that concept is no stranger. As discussed above, the Code authorizes a bankruptcy court to decline to discharge fraudulent debts, see §523(a)(2), or to dismiss a case or convert it to a case under another chapter if it finds that granting relief would constitute abuse, see §707(b)(1). Attorneys and other professionals who give debtors bankruptcy advice must know of these provisions and their consequences for a debtor who in bad faith incurs additional debt prior to filing. Indeed, §707(b)(4)(C) states that an attorney's signature on bankruptcy filings "shall constitute a certification that the attorney has" determined that the filing "does not constitute an abuse under [§707(b)(1)]." Against this backdrop, it is hard to see how a rule that narrowly prohibits an attorney from affirmatively advising a client to commit this type of abusive prefiling conduct could chill attorney speech or inhibit the attorney-client relationship. Our construction of §526(a)(4) to prevent only advice principally motivated by the prospect of bankruptcy further ensures that professionals cannot unknowingly run afoul of its proscription.6 Because the scope of the prohibition is adequately defined, both on its own terms and by reference to the Code's other provisions, we reject Milavetz's vagueness claim.     As the foregoing shows, the language of the statute, together with other evidence of its purpose, makes this narrow reading of §526(a)(4) not merely a plausible interpretation but the more natural one. Accordingly, we reject the Eighth Circuit's conclusion and hold that a debt relief agency violates §526(a)(4) only when the impetus of the advice to incur more debt is the expectation of filing for bankruptcy and obtaining the attendant relief. Because our reading of the statute supplies a sufficient ground for reversing the Court of Appeals' decision, and because Milavetz challenges the constitutionality of the statute, as narrowed, only on vagueness grounds, we need not further consider whether the statute so construed withstands First Amendment scrutiny.C     Finally, we address the validity of §528's challenged disclosure requirements. Our first task in resolving this question is to determine the contours of Milavetz's claim. Although the nature of its challenge is not entirely clear from the briefing or decisions below, counsel for Milavetz insisted at oral argument that this is "not a facial challenge; it's an as-applied challenge." Tr. of Oral Arg. 26. We will approach the question consistent with Milavetz's characterization.7     We next consider the standard of scrutiny applicable to §528's disclosure requirements. The parties agree, as do we, that the challenged provisions regulate only commercial speech. Milavetz contends that our decision in Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y., 447 U. S. 557 (1980), supplies the proper standard for reviewing these requirements. The Court in that case held that restrictions on nonmisleading commercial speech regarding lawful activity must withstand intermediate scrutiny--that is, they must "directly advanc[e]" a substantial governmental interest and be "n[o] more extensive than is necessary to serve that interest." Id., at 566. Contesting Milavetz's premise, the Government maintains that §528 is directed at misleading commercial speech. For that reason, and because the challenged provisions impose a disclosure requirement rather than an affirmative limitation on speech, the Government contends that the less exacting scrutiny described in Zauderer governs our review. We agree.     Zauderer addressed the validity of a rule of professional conduct that required attorneys who advertised contingency-fee services to disclose in their advertisements that a losing client might still be responsible for certain litigation fees and costs. Noting that First Amendment protection for commercial speech is justified in large part by the information's value to consumers, the Court concluded that an attorney's constitutionally protected interest in not providing the required factual information is "minimal." 471 U. S., at 651. Unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements offend the First Amendment by chilling protected speech, but "an advertiser's rights are adequately protected as long as disclosure requirements are reasonably related to the State's interest in preventing deception of consumers." Ibid.     The challenged provisions of §528 share the essential features of the rule at issue in Zauderer. As in that case, §528's required disclosures are intended to combat the problem of inherently misleading commercial advertisements--specifically, the promise of debt relief without any reference to the possibility of filing for bankruptcy, which has inherent costs. Additionally, the disclosures entail only an accurate statement identifying the advertiser's legal status and the character of the assistance provided, and they do not prevent debt relief agencies like Milavetz from conveying any additional information.     The same characteristics of §528 that make it analogous to the rule in Zauderer serve to distinguish it from those at issue in In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191 (1982), to which the Court applied the intermediate scrutiny of Central Hudson. The ethical rules addressed in R. M. J. prohibited attorneys from advertising their practice areas in terms other than those prescribed by the State Supreme Court and from announcing the courts in which they were admitted to practice. See 455 U. S., at 197-198. Finding that the restricted statements were not inherently misleading and that the State had failed to show that the appellant's advertisements were themselves likely to mislead consumers, see id., at 205, the Court applied Central Hudson's intermediate scrutiny and invalidated the restrictions as insufficiently tailored to any substantial state interest, 455 U. S., at 205-206. In so holding, the Court emphasized that States retain authority to regulate inherently misleading advertisements, particularly through disclosure requirements, and it noted that advertisements for professional services pose a special risk of deception. See id., at 203, 207.     Milavetz makes much of the fact that the Government in these consolidated cases has adduced no evidence that its advertisements are misleading. Zauderer forecloses that argument: "When the possibility of deception is as self-evident as it is in this case, we need not require the State to 'conduct a survey of the ... public before it [may] determine that the [advertisement] had a tendency to mislead.' " 471 U. S., at 652-653 (quoting FTC v. Colgate-Palmolive Co., 380 U. S. 374, 391-392 (1965)). Evidence in the congressional record demonstrating a pattern of advertisements that hold out the promise of debt relief without alerting consumers to its potential cost, see 1998 Hearings, pt. III, at 86, 90-94, is adequate to establish that the likelihood of deception in this case "is hardly a speculative one," 471 U. S., at 652.     Milavetz alternatively argues that the term "debt relief agency" is confusing and misleading and that requiring its inclusion in advertisements cannot be "reasonably related" to the Government's interest in preventing consumer deception, as Zauderer requires. Id., at 651. This contention amounts to little more than a preference on Milavetz's part for referring to itself as something other than a "debt relief agency"--e.g., an attorney or a law firm. For several reasons, we conclude that this preference lacks any constitutional basis. First, Milavetz offers no evidence to support its claim that the label is confusing. Because §528 by its terms applies only to debt relief agencies, the disclosures are necessarily accurate to that extent: Only debt relief agencies must identify themselves as such in their advertisements. This statement provides interested observers with pertinent information about the advertiser's services and client obligations.     Other information that Milavetz must or may include in its advertisements for bankruptcy-assistance services provides additional assurance that consumers will not misunderstand the term. The required statement that the advertiser " 'help[s] people file for bankruptcy relief' " gives meaningful context to the term "debt relief agency." And Milavetz may further identify itself as a law firm or attorney. Section 528 also gives Milavetz flexibility to tailor the disclosures to its individual circumstances, as long as the resulting statements are "substantially similar" to the statutory examples. §§528(a)(4) and (b)(2)(B).     Finally, we reject Milavetz's argument that §528 is not reasonably related to any governmental interest because it applies equally to attorneys who represent creditors, as Milavetz sometimes does. The required disclosures, Milavetz contends, would be counterfactual and misleading in that context. This claim is premised on an untenable reading of the statute. We think it evident from the definition of "assisted person"--which is stated in terms of the person's debts, see §101(3)--and from the text and structure of the debt-relief-agency provisions in §§526, 527, and 528 that those provisions, including §528's disclosure requirements, govern only professionals who offer bankruptcy-related services to consumer debtors. Section 528 is itself expressly concerned with advertisements pertaining to "bankruptcy assistance services," "the benefits of bankruptcy," "excessive debt, debt collection pressure, or inability to pay any consumer debt," §§528(a)(3) and (b)(2). Moreover, like the other debt-relief-agency provisions, that section is codified in a subchapter of the Bankruptcy Code entitled "debtor's duties and benefits." 11 U. S. C., ch. 5, subch. II. In context, reading §528 to govern advertisements aimed at creditors would be as anomalous as the result of which Milavetz complains. Once again, we decline Milavetz's invitation to adopt a view of the statute that is contrary to its plain meaning and would produce an absurd result.     Because §528's requirements that Milavetz identify itself as a debt relief agency and include certain information about its bankruptcy-assistance and related services are "reasonably related to the [Government's] interest in preventing deception of consumers," Zauderer, 471 U. S., at 651, we uphold those provisions as applied to Milavetz.IV     For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit is affirmed as to §§101(12A) and 528 and reversed as to §526(a)(4), and the cases are remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Scalia, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.     I join the opinion of the Court, except for footnote 3, which notes that the legislative history supports what the statute unambiguously says. The Court first notes that statements in the Report of the House Committee on the Judiciary "indicate concern with abusive practices undertaken by attorneys." Ante, at 6, n. 3. Perhaps, but only the concern of the author of the Report. Such statements tell us nothing about what the statute means, since (1) we do not know that the members of the Committee read the Report, (2) it is almost certain that they did not vote on the Report (that is not the practice), and (3) even if they did read and vote on it, they were not, after all, those who made this law. The statute before us is a law because its text was approved by a majority vote of the House and the Senate, and was signed by the President. Even indulging the extravagant assumption that Members of the House other than members of its Committee on the Judiciary read the Report (and the further extravagant assumption that they agreed with it), the Members of the Senate could not possibly have read it, since it did not exist when the Senate passed the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005. And the President surely had more important things to do.     The footnote's other source of legislative history is truly mystifying. For the proposition that "the legislative record elsewhere documents misconduct by attorneys" which was presumably the concern of Congress, the Court cites a reproduction of a tasteless advertisement that was (1) an attachment to the written statement of a witness, (2) in a hearing held seven years prior to this statute's passage, (3) before a subcommittee of the House considering a different consumer bankruptcy reform bill that never passed.* "Elsewhere" indeed.     The Court acknowledges that nothing can be gained by this superfluous citation (it admits the footnote is "unnecessary in light of the statute's unambiguous language," ante, at 6, n. 3). But much can be lost. Our cases have said that legislative history is irrelevant when the statutory text is clear. See, e.g., United States v. Gonzales, 520 U. S. 1, 6 (1997); Connecticut Nat. Bank v. Germain, 503 U. S. 249, 254 (1992). The footnote advises conscientious attorneys that this is not true, and that they must spend time and their clients' treasure combing the annals of legislative history in all cases: To buttress their case where the statutory text is unambiguously in their favor; and to attack an unambiguous text that is against them. If legislative history is relevant to confirm that a clear text means what it says, it is presumably relevant to show that an apparently clear text does not mean what it seems to say. Even for those who believe in the legal fiction that committee reports reflect congressional intent, footnote 3 is a bridge too far.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Thomas, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.     I concur in the judgment and join all but Part III-C of the Court's opinion. I agree with the Court that 11 U. S. C. §528's advertising disclosure requirements survive First Amendment scrutiny on the record before us. I write separately because different reasons lead me to that conclusion.     I have never been persuaded that there is any basis in the First Amendment for the relaxed scrutiny this Court applies to laws that suppress nonmisleading commercial speech. See 44 Liquormart, Inc. v. Rhode Island, 517 U. S. 484, 522-523 (1996) (opinion concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (discussing Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y., 447 U. S. 557 (1980)). In this case, the Court applies a still lower standard of scrutiny to review a law that compels the disclosure of commercial speech--i.e., the rule articulated in Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626 (1985), that laws that require the disclosure of factual information in commercial advertising may be upheld so long as they are "reasonably related" to the government's interest in preventing consumer deception, id., at 651.     I am skeptical of the premise on which Zauderer rests--that, in the commercial-speech context, "the First Amendment interests implicated by disclosure requirements are substantially weaker than those at stake when speech is actually suppressed," id., at 652, n. 14; see id., at 650 (citing "material differences between disclosure requirements and outright prohibitions on speech"). We have refused in other contexts to attach any "constitutional significance" to the difference between regulations that compel protected speech and regulations that restrict it. See, e.g., Riley v. National Federation of Blind of N. C., Inc., 487 U. S. 781, 796-797 (1988). I see no reason why that difference should acquire constitutional significance merely because the regulations at issue involve commercial speech. See Glickman v. Wileman Brothers & Elliott, Inc., 521 U. S. 457, 480-481 (1997) (Souter, J., dissenting) (arguing that "commercial speech is ... subject to [this] First Amendment principle: that compelling cognizable speech officially is just as suspect as suppressing it, and is typically subject to the same level of scrutiny"); id., at 504 (Thomas, J., dissenting); cf. United States v. United Foods, Inc., 533 U. S. 405, 419 (2001) (Thomas, J., concurring) (stating that regulations that compel funding for commercial advertising "must be subjected to the most stringent First Amendment scrutiny").     Accordingly, I would be willing to reexamine Zauderer and its progeny in an appropriate case to determine whether these precedents provide sufficient First Amendment protection against government-mandated disclosures.1 Because no party asks us to do so here, however, I agree with the Court that the Zauderer standard governs our review of the challenge to §528 brought by the Milavetz law firm and the other plaintiffs in this action (hereinafter Milavetz).     Yet even under Zauderer, we "have not presumptively endorsed" laws requiring the use of "government-scripted disclaimers" in commercial advertising. See Borgner v. Florida Bd. of Dentistry, 537 U. S. 1080, 1082 (2002) (Thomas, J., dissenting from denial of certiorari). Zauderer upheld the imposition of sanctions against an attorney under a rule of professional conduct that required advertisements for contingency-fee services to disclose that losing clients might be responsible for litigation fees and costs. See 471 U. S., at 650-653. Importantly, however, Zauderer's advertisement was found to be misleading on its face, and the regulation in that case did not mandate the specific form or text of the disclosure. Ibid. Thus, Zauderer does not stand for the proposition that the government can constitutionally compel the use of a scripted disclaimer in any circumstance in which its interest in preventing consumer deception might plausibly be at stake. In other words, a bare assertion by the government that a disclosure requirement is "intended" to prevent consumer deception, standing alone, is not sufficient to uphold the requirement as applied to all speech that falls within its sweep. See ante, at 20.     Instead, our precedents make clear that regulations aimed at false or misleading advertisements are permissible only where "the particular advertising is inherently likely to deceive or where the record indicates that a particular form or method of advertising has in fact been deceptive." In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191, 202 (1982) (emphasis added); see Zauderer, supra, at 651 ("recogniz[ing] that unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements might offend the First Amendment"). Therefore, a disclosure requirement passes constitutional muster only to the extent that it is aimed at advertisements that, by their nature, possess these traits. See R. M. J., supra, at 202; Ibanez v. Florida Dept. of Business and Professional Regulation, Bd. of Accountancy, 512 U. S. 136, 143, 146-147 (1994).     I do not read the Court's opinion to hold otherwise. See ante, at 20. Accordingly, and with that understanding, I turn to the question whether Milavetz's challenge to §528's disclosure requirements survives Zauderer scrutiny on the record before us.     As the Court notes, the posture of Milavetz's challenge inhibits our review of its First Amendment claim. See ante, at 19, n. 7. Milavetz challenged §528's constitutionality before the statute had ever been enforced against any of the firm's advertisements. Although Milavetz purports to challenge §528 only " 'as-applied' " to its own advertising, see ante, at 19, it did not introduce any evidence or exhibits to substantiate its claim. Thus, no court has seen a sampling of Milavetz's advertisements or even a declaration describing their contents and the media through which Milavetz seeks to transmit them. As a consequence, Milavetz's nominal "as applied" challenge appears strikingly similar to a facial challenge.     We generally disapprove of such challenges because they "often rest on speculation" and require courts to engage in " 'premature interpretation of statutes on the basis of factually barebones records.' " Washington State Grange v. Washington State Republican Party, 552 U. S. 442, 450 (2008) (quoting Sabri v. United States, 541 U. S. 600, 609 (2004)). Milavetz's claim invites the same problems. Milavetz alleges that §528's disclosure requirements are unconstitutional as applied to its advertisements because its advertisements are not misleading and because the disclaimer required by §528 will create, rather than reduce, confusion for Milavetz's potential clients. That may well be true. But because no record evidence of Milavetz's advertisements exists to guide our review, we can only speculate about the ways in which the statute might be applied to Milavetz's speech.     When forced to determine the constitutionality of a statute based solely on such conjecture, we will uphold the law if there is any "conceivabl[e]" manner in which it can be enforced consistent with the First Amendment. Washington State Grange, supra, at 456. In this case, both parties agree that §528's disclosure requirements cover, at a minimum, deceptive advertisements that promise to " 'wipe out' " debts without mentioning bankruptcy as the means of accomplishing this goal.2 Brief for Milavetz 82, 86; Brief for United States 60-62. As a result, there is at least one set of facts on which the statute could be constitutionally applied. Thus, I agree with the Court that Milavetz's challenge to §528 must fail.FOOTNOTESRegulation Z--promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board (Board) pursuant to its authority under the Truth in Lending Act--requires credit card issuers to disclose certain information to cardholders. The version of the regulation in effect at the time this dispute arose obliges issuers to provide to cardholders an "[i]nitial disclosure statement," 12 CFR §226.6, specifying "each periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge," §226.6(a)(2). It also imposes "[s]ubsequent disclosure requirements," §226.9, including notice to cardholders "[w]henever any term required to be disclosed under §226.6 is changed," §226.9(c)(1). When "a periodic rate or other finance charge is increased because of the consumer's delinquency or default," notice must be given "before the effective date of the change." Ibid.          At the time respondent McCoy filed suit, he was the holder of a credit card issued by petitioner Chase Bank. The cardholder agreement provided, in relevant part, that McCoy was eligible for "Preferred rates" as long as he met certain conditions. If any of those conditions were not met, Chase reserved the right to raise the rate, up to a pre-set maximum, and to apply the change to both existing and new balances. McCoy alleges that Chase increased his interest rate due to his delinquency or default and applied that increase retroactively, and that this action violated Regulation Z because Chase did not notify him of the increase until after it had taken effect. The District Court dismissed his complaint, holding that because the increase did not constitute a "change in terms" under §226.9(c), Chase was not required to notify him of the increase before implementing it. The Ninth Circuit reversed in relevant part, holding that Regulation Z requires issuers to provide notice of an interest-rate increase prior to its effective date.Held: At the time of the transactions at issue, Regulation Z did not require Chase to provide McCoy with a change-in-terms notice before implementing the agreement term allowing it to raise his interest rate, up to a pre-set maximum, following delinquency or default. Pp. 7-19.     (a) This case requires the Court to determine the meaning of a regulation promulgated by the Board under its statutory authority. However, Regulation Z's text is unclear with respect to the crucial interpretive question at issue: whether a change to an interest rate, pursuant to previously-disclosed contractual provision, constitutes a change to a "term required to be disclosed under §226.6" requiring a subsequent disclosure under §226.9(c)(1). Because of this ambiguity, the Court must look to the Board's own interpretation of the regulation for guidance in deciding this case. Pp. 7-12.     (b) The Board has made clear in its amicus brief to this Court that, in its view, Chase was not required to give McCoy notice of the interest rate increase under the applicable version of Regulation Z. This Court defers to an agency's interpretation of its own regulation, advanced in a legal brief, unless that interpretation is "plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation." Auer v. Robbins, 519 U. S. 452, 461 (internal quotation marks omitted). In Auer, the Court deferred to the Secretary of Labor's interpretation of his own regulation, presented in an amicus brief submitted by the agency at the Court's invitation. The Court held that the fact that the interpretation came in a legal brief did not, "in the circumstances of th[at] case, make it unworthy of deference." Id., at 462. The interpretation was "in no sense a post hoc rationalization advanced by an agency seeking to defend past agency action against attack," ibid. (internal quotation marks and alteration omitted), and there was "no reason to suspect that the interpretation [did] not reflect the agency's fair and considered judgment on the matter in question," ibid. The brief submitted by the Board here, at the Court's invitation, is no different. As in Auer, there is no reason to believe that the Board's interpretation is a "post hoc rationalization" taken as a litigation position, for the Board is not a party to this case. And its interpretation is neither "plainly erroneous" nor "inconsistent with" the indeterminate text of Regulation Z. Thus, there is no reason to suspect that the Board's position in its amicus brief reflects anything other than its fair and considered judgment as to what the regulation required at the time this dispute arose. That Congress and the Board may currently hold a different view does not mean that deference is not warranted to the Board's understanding of what the applicable version of Regulation Z required. Under Auer, therefore, it is clear that deference to the interpretation in the agency amicus brief is warranted. Pp. 12-16.     (c) McCoy errs in arguing that deference to a legal brief is inappropriate because the interpretation of Regulation Z in the Official Staff Commentary commands a different result. While Commentary promulgated by the Board as an interpretation of Regulation Z may warrant deference as a general matter, the Commentary explaining the requirements at issue in this case largely replicates the ambiguity present in the regulatory text, and therefore offers no reason to disregard the interpretation advanced in the Board's amicus brief. Pp. 16-19.559 F. 3d 963, reversed and remanded.     Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.CHASE BANK USA, N. A., PETITIONER v. JAMES A. McCOY, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situatedon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[January 24, 2011]     Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.     As applicable to this case, Regulation Z--promulgated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) pursuant to its authority under the Truth in Lending Act (TILA), 82 Stat. 146, 15 U. S. C. §1601 et seq.--requires that issuers of credit cards provide cardholders with an "[i]nitial disclosure statement" specifying, inter alia, "each periodic rate" associated with the account. 12 CFR §226.6(a)(2) (2008). The regulation also imposes "[s]ubsequent disclosure requirements," including notice to cardholders "[w]henever any term required to be disclosed under §226.6 is changed." §226.9(c)(1). This case presents the question whether Regulation Z requires an issuer to notify a cardholder of an interest-rate increase instituted pursuant to a provision of the cardholder agreement giving the issuer discretion to increase the rate, up to a stated maximum, in the event of the cardholder's delinquency or default. We conclude that the version of Regulation Z applicable in this case does not require such notice.IA     Congress passed TILA to promote consumers' "informed use of credit" by requiring "meaningful disclosure of credit terms," 15 U. S. C. §1601(a), and granted the Board the authority to issue regulations to achieve TILA's purposes, §1604(a). Pursuant to this authority, the Board promulgated Regulation Z, which requires credit card issuers to disclose certain information to consumers.1 Two provisions of Regulation Z are at issue in this case. The first, 12 CFR §226.6, explains what information credit card issuers are obliged to provide to cardholders in the "[i]nitial disclosure statement," including "each periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge." §226.6(a)(2). The second, §226.9, imposes upon issuers certain "[s]ubsequent disclosure requirements," including a requirement to provide notice "[w]henever any term required to be disclosed under §226.6 is changed." §226.9(c)(1). As a general matter, notice of a change in terms has to be provided 15 days in advance of the effective date of the change. Ibid. When "a periodic rate or other finance charge is increased because of the consumer's delinquency or default," however, notice only need be given "before the effective date of the change." Ibid. Regulation Z also explains that no notice is required under §226.9 when the change in terms "results from ... the consumer's default or delinquency (other than an increase in the periodic rate or other finance charge)." §226.9(c)(2).     The official interpretation of Regulation Z (Official Staff Commentary or Commentary) promulgated by the Board explains these requirements further: Section 226.9(c)(1)'s notice-of-change requirement does not apply "if the specific change is set forth initially, such as ... an increase that occurs when the consumer has been under an agreement to maintain a certain balance in a savings account in order to keep a particular rate and the account balance falls below the specified minimum." 12 CFR pt. 226, Supp. I, Comment 9(c)-1, p. 506 (2008) (hereinafter Comment 9(c)-1). On the other hand, the Commentary explains, "notice must be given if the contract allows the creditor to increase the rate at its discretion but does not include specific terms for an increase (for example, when an increase may occur under the creditor's contract reservation right to increase the periodic rate)." Ibid. As to the timing requirements, the Commentary states: "[A] notice of change in terms is required, but it may be mailed or delivered as late as the effective date of the change . . . [i]f there is an increased periodic rate or any other finance charge attributable to the consumer's delinquency or default." Id., Comment 9(c)(1)-3, at 507 (hereinafter Comment 9(c)(1)-3).     At least as early as 2004, the Board began considering revisions to Regulation Z. The new regulations the Board eventually issued do not apply to the present case, but the details of their promulgation provides useful background in considering the parties' arguments with respect to the version of Regulation Z we address here. In 2004 the Board issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking announcing its intent to consider revisions. 69 Fed. Reg. 70925 (2004). In so doing, the Board described how it understood the notice requirements to function at that time:"[A]dvance notice is not required in all cases. For example, if the interest rate or other finance charge increases due to a consumer's default or delinquency, notice is required, but need not be given in advance. 12 CFR 226.9(c)(1); comment 9(c)(1)-3. And no change-in-terms notice is required if the creditor specifies in advance the circumstances under which an increase to the finance charge or an annual fee will occur. Comment 9(c)-1. For example, some credit card account agreements permit the card issuer to increase the interest rate if the consumer pays late . . . . Under Regulation Z, because the circumstances are specified in advance in the account agreement, the creditor need not provide a change-in-terms notice 15 days in advance of the increase; the new rate will appear on the periodic statement for the cycle in which the increase occurs." Id., at 70931-70932.The Board asked for public comment on whether these "existing disclosure rules" were "adequate to enable consumers to make timely decisions about how to manage their accounts." Id., at 70932.     Subsequently, in 2007, the Board published proposed amendments to Regulation Z and the Commentary. 72 Fed. Reg. 32948. One amendment would have required 45 days' advance written notice when "(i) [a] rate is increased due to the consumer's delinquency or default; or (ii) [a] rate is increased as a penalty for one or more events specified in the account agreement, such as making a late payment or obtaining an extension of credit that exceeds the credit limit." Id., at 33058 (proposed 12 CFR §226.9(g)). The Board explained that, under the amendments, "creditors would no longer be permitted to provide for the immediate application of penalty pricing upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the contract." 72 Fed. Reg. 33012.     In January 2009, the Board promulgated a final rule implementing many of the proposed changes, scheduled to be effective July 1, 2010. 74 Fed. Reg. 5244. Most saliently, the Board included a new provision, §226.9(g), which requires 45 days' advance notice of increases in rates due to cardholder delinquency or default, or as a penalty, including penalties for "events specified in the account agreement, such as making a late payment ... ." 12 CFR §226.9(g)(1)(2010). In May 2009, Congress enacted the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act (Credit CARD Act or Act), 123 Stat. 1734. The Act amended TILA, in relevant part, to require 45 days' advance notice of most increases in credit card annual percentage rates. 15 U. S. C. §1637(i) (2006 ed., Supp. III). Because the Credit CARD Act's notice requirements with respect to interest-rate increases largely mirror the requirements in the new version of the regulation, the Board changed the effective date of those requirements to August 20, 2009, to coincide with the statutory schedule. See 74 Fed. Reg. 36077-36079. The transactions giving rise to the dispute at issue in this case, however, arose prior to enactment of the Act and the promulgation of the new regulatory provisions.B     Respondent James A. McCoy brought this action in the Superior Court of Orange County, California on behalf of himself and others similarly situated against petitioner Chase Bank USA, N. A.; Chase removed the action to the United States District Court for the Central District of California under 28 U. S. C. §1441. At the time of the transactions at issue, McCoy was the holder of a credit card issued by Chase. The cardholder agreement between the parties (Agreement) provides, in relevant part, that McCoy is eligible for "Preferred rates," but that to keep such rates he has to meet certain conditions, including making "at least the required minimum payments when due on [his] Account and on all other loans or accounts with [Chase] and [his] other creditors." Brief for Respondent 8, n. 2; see also 559 F. 3d 963, 972, n. 1 (CA9 2009) (Cudahy, J., dissenting). If any of the conditions in the Agreement are not met, Chase reserves the right to "change [McCoy's] interest rate and impose a Non-Preferred rate up to the maximum Non-Preferred rate described in the Pricing Schedule" and to apply any changes "to existing as well as new balances ... effective with the billing cycle ending on the review date." Brief for Respondent 8, n. 2.     McCoy's complaint alleges that Chase increased his interest rate due to his delinquency or default, and applied that increase retroactively. McCoy asserts that the rate increase violates Regulation Z because, pursuant to the Agreement, Chase did not notify him of the increase until after it had taken effect.2 The District Court dismissed McCoy's complaint, holding that because the increase did not constitute a "change in terms" as contemplated by §226.9(c), Chase was not required to notify him of the increase before implementing it. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 37a-47a.     A divided panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed in relevant part, holding that Regulation Z requires issuers to provide notice of an interest-rate increase prior to its effective date. See 559 F. 3d, at 969. Concluding that the text of Regulation Z is ambiguous and that the agency commentary accompanying the 2004 request for comments and the 2007 proposed amendments favors neither party's interpretation, the court relied primarily on the Official Staff Commentary; in particular, the court noted that Comment 9(c)-1 requires no notice of a change in terms if the "specific change" at issue is set forth in the initial agreement. See id., at 965-967. The court found, however, that because the Agreement vests Chase with discretion to impose any Non-Preferred rate it chooses (up to the specified maximum) upon McCoy's default, the Agreement "provides McCoy with no basis for predicting in advance what retroactive interest rate Chase will choose to charge him if he defaults." Id., at 967. Accordingly, the court held that because the Agreement does not alert McCoy to the "specific change" that will occur if he defaults, Chase was obliged to give notice of that change prior to its effective date. Ibid. Relying primarily on the 2004 notice of proposed rulemaking and the 2007 proposed amendments, the dissenting judge concluded that Regulation Z does not require notice of an interest-rate increase in the circumstances of this case. See id., at 972-979 (opinion of Cudahy, J.).     After the Ninth Circuit's ruling, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit decided the same question in Chase's favor. See Shaner v. Chase Bank USA, N. A., 587 F. 3d 488 (2009). The First Circuit relied in part on an amicus brief submitted by the Board at the court's request, in which the agency advanced the same interpretation of Regulation Z that it now does before this Court. Id., at 493. We granted certiorari to resolve this division in authority.3 561 U. S. ___ (2010).II     In order to decide this case, we must determine whether an interest-rate increase constitutes a "change in terms" under Regulation Z, when the change is made pursuant to a provision in the cardholder agreement allowing the issuer to increase the rate, up to a stated maximum, in the event of the cardholder's delinquency or default. Accordingly, this case calls upon us to determine the meaning of a regulation promulgated by the Board under its statutory authority. The parties dispute the proper interpretation of the regulation itself, as well as whether we should accord deference to the Board's interpretation of its regulation. As explained below, we conclude that the text of the regulation is ambiguous, and that deference is warranted to the interpretation of that text advanced by the Board in its amicus brief.A     Our analysis begins with the text of Regulation Z in effect at the time this dispute arose. First, §226.6 requires an "[i]nitial disclosure statement":     "The creditor shall disclose to the consumer, in terminology consistent with that to be used on the periodic statement, each of the following items, to the extent applicable:      "(a) Finance charge. The circumstances under which a finance charge will be imposed and an explanation of how it will be determined, as follows:.?????.?????.?????.?????.      "(2) A disclosure of each periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge, the range of balances to which it is applicable, and the corresponding annual percentage rate. When different periodic rates apply to different types of transactions, the types of transactions to which the periodic rates apply shall also be disclosed." (Footnotes omitted.)Second, §226.9(c) requires certain "[s]ubsequent disclosure requirements":     "Change in terms--(1) Written notice required. Whenever any term required to be disclosed under §226.6 is changed or the required minimum periodic payment is increased, the creditor shall mail or deliver written notice of the change to each consumer who may be affected. The notice shall be mailed or delivered at least 15 days prior to the effective date of the change. The 15-day timing requirement does not apply if the change has been agreed to by the consumer, or if a periodic rate or other finance charge is increased because of the consumer's delinquency or default; the notice shall be given, however, before the effective date of the change.      "(2) Notice not required. No notice under this section is required when the change ... results from ... the consumer's default or delinquency (other than an increase in the periodic rate or other finance charge)."     The question is whether the increase in McCoy's interest rate constitutes a change to a "term required to be disclosed under §226.6," requiring a subsequent disclosure under §226.9(c)(1). One of the initial terms that must be disclosed under §226.6 is "each periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge ... and the corresponding annual percentage rate." §226.6(a)(2). McCoy argues that, because an increase in the interest rate increases the "periodic rate" applicable to his account, such an increase constitutes a change in terms within the meaning of §226.9(c)(1). As further support, McCoy points to two provisions in §226.9(c): first, that notice of an increase in the interest rate must be provided "before the effective date of the change" when the increase is due to "the consumer's delinquency or default," §226.9(c)(1); and second, that no notice is required of a change resulting "from the consumer's default or delinquency (other than an increase in the periodic rate or other finance charge)," §226.9(c)(2). Accordingly, because §226.9(c) includes interest-rate increases due to delinquency or default, McCoy argues that the plain text of the regulation indicates that a change in the periodic rate due to such default is a "change in terms" requiring notice under §226.9(c)(1).     We recognize that McCoy's argument has some force; read in isolation, the language quoted above certainly suggests that credit card issuers must provide notice of an interest-rate increase imposed pursuant to cardholder delinquency or default. But McCoy's analysis begs the key question: whether the increase actually changed a "term" of the Agreement that was "required to be disclosed under §226.6." If not, §226.9(c)'s subsequent notice requirement with respect to a "change in terms" does not apply. Chase argues precisely this: The increase did not change a term in the Agreement, but merely implemented one that had been initially disclosed, as required. This interpretation, though not commanded by the text of the regulation, is reasonable. Section 226.6(a)(2) requires initial disclosure of "each periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge." The Agreement itself discloses both the initial rate (Preferred rate) and the maximum rate to be imposed in the event of default (Non-Preferred rate). See Brief for Respondent 8, n. 2; Brief for Petitioner 13-14.4 Accordingly, it is plausible to understand the Agreement to initially disclose "each periodic rate" to be applied to the account, and Chase arguably did not "change" those rates as a result of McCoy's default. Instead, Chase merely implemented the previously disclosed term specifying the Non-Preferred rate.5     This reading still leaves the question why §226.9(c)(1) refers to interest-rate increases resulting from delinquency or default if such increases do not constitute a "change in terms." One reasonable explanation Chase offers is that §226.9(c)(1) refers to interest-rate increases that were not specifically outlined in the agreement's initial terms (unlike those in the present Agreement). For example, credit card agreements routinely include a "reservation of rights" provision giving the issuer discretion to change the terms of the contract, often as a means of responding to events that raise doubts about the cardholder's creditworthiness. An issuer may exercise this general contract-modification authority and raise the interest rate applicable to the account to address any heightened risk. See Brief for Petitioner 6. In such a case, §226.9(c)(1) is best read to require that notice must be given prior to the effective date of the increase, because the unilateral increase instituted by the issuer actually changed a term--the interest rate--in a manner not specifically contemplated by the agreement.6 See Comment 9(c)-1 (providing that notice is required if the agreement "does not include specific terms for an increase (for example, when an increase may occur under the creditor's contract reservation right to increase the periodic rate)").     In short, Regulation Z is unclear with respect to the crucial interpretive question: whether the interest-rate increase at issue in this case constitutes a "change in terms" requiring notice. We need not decide which party's interpretation is more persuasive, however; both are plausible, and the text alone does not permit a more definitive reading. Accordingly, we find Regulation Z to be ambiguous as to the question presented, and must therefore look to the Board's own interpretation of the regulation for guidance in deciding this case. See Coeur Alaska, Inc. v. Southeast Alaska Conservation Council, 557 U. S. ___, ___ (2009) (slip op., at 14) (stating that when an agency's regulations construing a statute "are ambiguous ... we next turn to the agencies' subsequent interpretation of those regulations" for guidance); Ford Motor Credit Co. v. Milhollin, 444 U. S. 555, 560 (1980) (stating that when the question presented "is not governed by clear expression in the ... regulation ... it is appropriate to defer to the Federal Reserve Board and staff in determining what resolution of that issue" is appropriate).B     The Board has made clear in the amicus brief it has submitted to this Court that, in the Board's view, Chase was not required to give McCoy notice of the interest rate increase under the version of Regulation Z applicable at the time. Under Auer v. Robbins, 519 U. S. 452 (1997), we defer to an agency's interpretation of its own regulation, advanced in a legal brief, unless that interpretation is "plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation." Id., at 461 (internal quotation marks omitted). Because the interpretation the Board presents in its brief is consistent with the regulatory text, we need look no further in deciding this case.7     In its brief to this Court, the Board explains that the Ninth Circuit "erred in concluding that, at the time of the transactions at issue in this case, Regulation Z required credit card issuers to provide a change-in-terms notice before implementing a contractual default-rate provision." See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 11; see also ibid. (stating that when a term of an agreement authorized the credit provider "to increase a consumer's interest rate if the consumer failed to make timely payments . . . any resulting rate increase did not represent a 'change in terms,' but rather the implementation of terms already set forth in the initial disclosure statement"); id., at 15-16 (stating that "[w]hen a cardholder agreement identifies a contingency that triggers a rate increase, and the maximum possible rate that the issuer may charge if that contingency occurs," then "no change-in-terms notice is required" under Regulation Z).8 Under the principles set forth in Auer, we give deference to this interpretation.     In Auer we deferred to the Secretary of Labor's interpretation of his own regulation, presented in an amicus brief submitted by the agency at our invitation. 519 U. S., at 461-462. Responding to the petitioners' objection that the agency's interpretation came in a legal brief, we held that this fact did not, "in the circumstances of this case, make it unworthy of deference." Id., at 462. We observed that "[t]he Secretary's position is in no sense a 'post hoc rationalizatio[n]' advanced by an agency seeking to defend past agency action against attack." Ibid. (quoting Bowen v. Georgetown Univ. Hospital, 488 U. S. 204, 212 (1988)). We added: "There is simply no reason to suspect that the interpretation does not reflect the agency's fair and considered judgment on the matter in question." Auer, 519 U. S., at 462.     The brief submitted by the Board in the present case, at our invitation, is no different. As in Auer, there is no reason to believe that the interpretation advanced by the Board is a "post hoc rationalization" taken as a litigation position. The Board is not a party to this case. And as is evident from our discussion of Regulation Z itself, see Part II-A, supra, the Board's interpretation is neither "plainly erroneous" nor "inconsistent with" the indeterminate text of the regulation. In short, there is no reason to suspect that the position the Board takes in its amicus brief reflects anything other than the agency's fair and considered judgment as to what the regulation required at the time this dispute arose.     McCoy may well be correct in asserting that it is better policy to oblige credit-card issuers to give advance notice of a rate increase; after all, both Congress and the Board have recently indicated that such a requirement is warranted. See Credit CARD Act, §101(a)(1), 123 Stat. 1735-1736; 12 CFR §226.9(g) (2009). That Congress and the Board may currently hold such views does not mean, however, that deference is not warranted to the Board's different understanding of what the pre-2009 version of Regulation Z required. To the contrary, the interpretation the Board advances in its amicus brief is entirely consistent with its past views. The 2004 notice of rulemaking and the 2007 proposed amendments to Regulation Z make clear that, prior to 2009, the Board's fair and considered judgment was that "no change-in-terms notice is required if the creditor specifies in advance the circumstances under which an increase ... will occur," 69 Fed. Reg. 70931, and "immediate application of penalty pricing upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the contract" was permissible, 72 Fed. Reg. 33012.     Under Auer, therefore, it is clear that deference to the interpretation in the Board's amicus brief is warranted. The cases McCoy cites in which we declined to apply Auer do not suggest that deference is unwarranted here. In Gonzales v. Oregon, 546 U. S. 243 (2006), we declined to defer because--in sharp contrast to the present case-the regulation in question did "little more than restate the terms of the statute" pursuant to which the regulation was promulgated. Id., at 257. Accordingly, no deference was warranted to an agency interpretation of what were, in fact, Congress' words. Ibid. In contrast, at the time of the transactions in this case, TILA itself included no requirements with respect to the disclosure of a change in credit terms. In Christensen v. Harris County, 529 U. S. 576 (2000), we declined to apply Auer deference because the regulation in question was unambiguous, and adopting the agency's contrary interpretation would "permit the agency, under the guise of interpreting a regulation, to create de facto a new regulation." 529 U. S., at 588. In light of Regulation Z's ambiguity, there is no such danger here. And our statement in Christensen that "deference is warranted only when the language of the regulation is ambiguous," ibid., is perfectly consonant with Auer itself; if the text of a regulation is unambiguous, a conflicting agency interpretation advanced in an amicus brief will necessarily be "plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation" in question. Auer, 519 U. S., at 461 (internal quotation marks omitted). Accordingly, under our precedent deference to the Board's interpretation of its own regulation, as presented in the agency's amicus brief, is wholly appropriate.C     McCoy further argues that deference to a legal brief is inappropriate because the interpretation of Regulation Z in the Official Staff Commentary commands a different result. To be sure, the Official Staff Commentary promulgated by the Board as an interpretation of Regulation Z may warrant deference as a general matter. See Anderson Bros. Ford v. Valencia, 452 U. S. 205, 219 (1981) (holding that "the Board's interpretation of its own regulation" should generally "be accepted by the courts"); Milhollin, 444 U. S., at 565 ("Unless demonstrably irrational, Federal Reserve Board staff opinions construing [TILA] or Regulation [Z] should be dispositive"). We find, however, that the Commentary at issue here largely replicates the ambiguity present in the regulatory text, and therefore it offers us nothing to which we can defer with respect to the precise interpretive question before us.9 Cf. Smith v. City of Jackson, 544 U. S. 228, 248 (2005) (O'Connor, J., concurring in judgment) (noting that deference is not warranted when "there is no reasoned agency reading of the text to which we might defer").     The Ninth Circuit relied primarily on Comment 9(c)(1)-3, which states in relevant part that "a notice of change in terms is required, but it may be mailed or delivered as late as the effective date of the change . . . [i]f there is an increased periodic rate or any other finance charge attributable to the consumer's delinquency or default." This exposition of the regulation does not add any clarity to the regulatory text, which expresses the same requirement. See §226.9(c)(1) (2008) ("[I]f a periodic rate or other finance charge is increased because of the consumer's delinquency or default ... notice shall be given ... before the effective date of the change"). And like §226.9(c), Comment 9(c) is entitled "Change in terms." Accordingly, Chase's plausible interpretation of §226.9(c)(1) is equally applicable to Comment 9(c)(1)-3: On Chase's view, because the interest-rate increase at issue in this case did not constitute a "change in terms," the disclosure requirements in the regulation and Commentary simply do not come into play. See supra, at 10-11.     Comment 9(c)-1 is also ambiguous, though the most plausible reading supports Chase's position more than it does McCoy's. The Comment begins: "No notice of a change in terms need be given if the specific change is set forth initially" in the agreement. We do not find that the Comment's addition of the modifier "specific" to the word "change" enables us to determine, any more than we could in light of the text of the regulation, see supra, at 12, whether the interest-rate increase at issue in this case was a "change in terms" requiring notice. According to Chase, as long as the agreement explains that delinquency or default might trigger an increased interest rate and states the maximum level to which the rate could be increased, the "specific change" that ensues upon default has been set forth initially and no additional notice is required before implementation. McCoy argues to the contrary: Under Comment 9(c)-1, any new rate imposed after delinquency or default must be disclosed prior to the effective date, if the particular rate (rather than the maximum rate) was not specifically mentioned in the agreement. On the whole, then, the Official Staff Commentary's explanation of Regulation Z does not resolve the uncertainty in the regulatory text, and offers us no reason to disregard the interpretation advanced in the Board's amicus brief.10     McCoy further contends that our reliance here on an agency interpretation presented outside the four corners of the Official Staff Commentary will require future litigants, as well as the Board, to expend time and resources "to comb through ... correspondence, publications, and the agency's website to determine the agency's position." Brief for Respondent 37-38. We are not convinced. McCoy may be correct that the Board established the Official Staff Commentary so as to centralize its opinion-making process and avoid "overburdening the industry with excessive detail and multiple research sources." 46 Fed. Reg. 50288. But his suggestion that, if we accord deference to an amicus brief, all other "unofficial" sources will be fair game is of no moment. Today we decide only that the amicus brief submitted by the Board is entitled to deference in light of "the circumstances of this case." Auer, 519 U. S., at 462.     Accordingly, we conclude that, at the time of the transactions at issue in this case, Regulation Z did not require Chase to provide McCoy with a change-in-terms notice before it implemented the Agreement term allowing it to raise his interest rate following delinquency or default.*??*??*     For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESFive years after the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) first approved metoclopramide, a drug commonly used to treat digestive tract problems, under the brand name Reglan, generic manufacturers such as petitioners also began producing the drug. Because of accumulating evidence that long-term metoclopramide use can cause tardive dyskinesia, a severe neurological disorder, warning labels for the drug have been strengthened and clarified several times, most recently in 2009.          Respondents were prescribed Reglan in 2001 and 2002, but both received the generic drug from their pharmacists. After taking the drug as prescribed for several years, both developed tardive dyskinesia. In separate state-court tort actions, they sued petitioners, the generic drug manufacturers that produced the metoclopramide they took (Manufacturers). Each respondent alleged, inter alia, that long-term metoclopramide use caused her disorder and that the Manufacturers were liable under state tort law for failing to provide adequate warning labels. In both suits, the Manufacturers urged that federal statutes and FDA regulations pre-empted the state tort claims by requiring the same safety and efficacy labeling for generic metoclopramide as was mandated at the time for Reglan. The Fifth and Eighth Circuits rejected these arguments, holding that respondents' claims were not pre-empted.Held: The judgment is reversed, and the cases are remanded.588 F. 3d 603 and 593 F. 3d 428, reversed and remanded.     Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to all but Part III-B-2, concluding that federal drug regulations applicable to generic drug manufacturers directly conflict with, and thus pre-empt, these state claims. Pp. 4-14, 17-20.     (a) Because pre-emption analysis requires a comparison between federal and state law, the Court begins by identifying the state tort duties and federal labeling requirements applicable to the Manufacturers. Pp. 4-10.          (1) State tort law requires a manufacturer that is, or should be, aware of its drug's danger to label it in a way that renders it reasonably safe. Respondents pleaded that the Manufacturers knew, or should have known, both that the long-term use of their products carried a high risk of tardive dyskinesia and that their labels did not adequately warn of that risk. Taking these allegations as true, the state-law duty required the Manufacturers to use a different, stronger label than the one they actually used. Pp. 4-5.          (2) On the other hand, federal drug regulations, as interpreted by the FDA, prevented the Manufacturers from independently changing their generic drugs' safety labels. A manufacturer seeking federal approval to market a new drug must prove that it is safe and effective and that the proposed label is accurate and adequate. Although the same rules originally applied to all drugs, the 1984 law commonly called the Hatch-Waxman Amendments allows a generic drug manufacturer to gain FDA approval simply by showing that its drug is equivalent to an already-approved brand-name drug, and that the safety and efficacy labeling proposed for its drug is the same as that approved for the brand-name drug. Respondents contend that federal law nevertheless provides avenues through which the Manufacturers could have altered their metoclopramide labels in time to prevent the injuries here. These include: (1) the FDA's "changes-being-effected" (CBE) process, which permits drug manufacturers, without preapproval, to add or strengthen a warning label; and (2) sending "Dear Doctor" letters providing additional warnings to prescribing physicians and other healthcare professionals. However, the FDA denies that the Manufacturers could have used either of these processes to unilaterally strengthen their warning labels. The Court defers to the FDA's views because they are not plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulations, and there is no other reason to doubt that they reflect the FDA's fair and considered judgment. Auer v. Robbins, 519 U. S. 452, 461, 462. Assuming, without deciding, that the FDA is correct that federal law nevertheless required the Manufacturers to ask for the agency's assistance in convincing the brand-name manufacturer to adopt a stronger label, the Court turns to the pre-emption question. Pp. 5-10.     (b) Where state and federal law directly conflict, state law must give way. See, e.g., Wyeth v. Levine, 555 U. S. 555, 583. Such a conflict exists where it is "impossible for a private party to comply with both state and federal requirements." Freightliner Corp. v. Myrick, 514 U. S. 280, 287. Pp. 11-14, 17-20.          (1) The Court finds impossibility here. If the Manufacturers had independently changed their labels to satisfy their state-law duty to attach a safer label to their generic metoclopramide, they would have violated the federal requirement that generic drug labels be the same as the corresponding brand-name drug labels. Thus, it was impossible for them to comply with both state and federal law. And even if they had fulfilled their federal duty to ask for FDA help in strengthening the corresponding brand-name label, assuming such a duty exists, they would not have satisfied their state tort-law duty. State law demanded a safer label; it did not require communication with the FDA about the possibility of a safer label. Pp. 11-12.          (2) The Court rejects the argument that the Manufacturers' pre-emption defense fails because they failed to ask the FDA for help in changing the corresponding brand-name label. The proper question for "impossibility" analysis is whether the private party could independently do under federal law what state law requires of it. See Wyeth, supra, at 573. Accepting respondents' argument would render conflict pre-emption largely meaningless by making most conflicts between state and federal law illusory. In these cases, it is possible that, had the Manufacturers asked the FDA for help, they might have eventually been able to strengthen their warning label. But it is also possible that they could have convinced the FDA to reinterpret its regulations in a manner that would have opened the CBE process to them, persuaded the FDA to rewrite its generic drug regulations entirely, or talked Congress into amending the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. If these conjectures sufficed to prevent federal and state law from conflicting, it is unclear when, outside of express pre-emption, the Supremacy Clause would have any force. That Clause--which makes federal law "the supreme Law of the Land ... any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding," U. S. Const., Art. VI, cl. 2--cannot be read to permit an approach to pre-emption that renders conflict pre-emption all but meaningless. Here, it is enough to hold that when a party cannot satisfy its state duties without the Federal Government's special permission and assistance, which is dependent on the exercise of judgment by a federal agency, that party cannot independently satisfy those state duties for pre-emption purposes. Pp. 12-14, 17.          (3) Wyeth is not to the contrary. The Court there held that a state tort action against a brand-name drug manufacturer for failure to provide an adequate warning label was not pre-empted because it was possible for the manufacturer to comply with both state and federal law under the FDA's CBE regulation. 555 U. S., at 572-573. The federal statutes and regulations that apply to brand-name drug manufacturers differ, by Congress' design, from those applicable to generic drug manufacturers. And different federal statutes and regulations may, as here, lead to different pre-emption results. This Court will not distort the Supremacy Clause in order to create similar pre-emption across a dissimilar statutory scheme. Congress and the FDA retain authority to change the law and regulations if they so desire. Pp. 17-20.     Thomas, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, except as to Part III-B-2. Roberts, C. J., and Scalia and Alito, JJ., joined that opinion in full, and Kennedy, J., joined as to all but Part III-B-2. Sotomayor, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Ginsburg, Breyer, and Kagan, JJ., joined.PLIVA, INC., et al., PETITIONERS09-993     v.GLADYS MENSINGACTAVIS ELIZABETH, LLC, PETITIONER09-1039     v.GLADYS MENSINGACTAVIS, INC., PETITIONER09-1501     v.JULIE DEMAHYon writs of certiorari to the united states courts of appeals for the eighth and fifth circuits[June 23, 2011]     Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court, ex-cept as to Part III-B-2.**     These consolidated lawsuits involve state tort-law claims based on certain drug manufacturers' alleged failure to provide adequate warning labels for generic metoclopramide. The question presented is whether federal drug regulations applicable to generic drug manufacturers directly conflict with, and thus pre-empt, these state-law claims. We hold that they do.I     Metoclopramide is a drug designed to speed the movement of food through the digestive system. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) first approved metoclopramide tablets, under the brand name Reglan, in 1980. Five years later, generic manufacturers also began producing meto-clopramide. The drug is commonly used to treat digestive tract problems such as diabetic gastroparesis and gastroesophageal reflux disorder.     Evidence has accumulated that long-term metoclopramide use can cause tardive dyskinesia, a severe neurological disorder. Studies have shown that up to 29% of patients who take metoclopramide for several years develop this condition. McNeil v. Wyeth, 462 F. 3d 364, 370, n. 5 (CA5 2006); see also Shaffer, Butterfield, Pamer, & Mackey, Tardive Dyskinesia Risks and Metoclopramide Use Before and After U. S. Market Withdrawal of Cisapride, 44 J. Am. Pharmacists Assn. 661, 663 (2004) (noting 87 cases of metoclopramide-related tardive dyskinesia reported to the FDA's adverse event reporting system by mid-2003).     Accordingly, warning labels for the drug have been strengthened and clarified several times. In 1985, the label was modified to warn that "tardive dyskinesia ... may develop in patients treated with metoclopramide," and the drug's package insert added that "[t]herapy longer than 12 weeks has not been evaluated and cannot be recommended." Physician's Desk Reference 1635-1636 (41st ed. 1987); see also Brief for Petitioner PLIVA et al. 21-22 (hereinafter PLIVA Brief). In 2004, the brand-name Reglan manufacturer requested, and the FDA approved, a label change to add that "[t]herapy should not exceed 12 weeks in duration." Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 8 (hereinafter U. S. Brief). And in 2009, the FDA ordered a black box warning--its strongest--which states: "Treatment with metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia, a serious movement disorder that is often irreversible... . Treatment with metoclopramide for longer than 12 weeks should be avoided in all but rare cases." See Physician's Desk Reference 2902 (65th ed. 2011).     Gladys Mensing and Julie Demahy, the plaintiffs in these consolidated cases, were prescribed Reglan in 2001 and 2002, respectively. Both received generic metoclopramide from their pharmacists. After taking the drug as prescribed for several years, both women developed tardive dyskinesia.     In separate suits, Mensing and Demahy sued the generic drug manufacturers that produced the metoclopramide they took (Manufacturers). Each alleged, as relevant here, that long-term metoclopramide use caused her tar-dive dyskinesia and that the Manufacturers were liable under state tort law (specifically, that of Minnesota and Louisiana) for failing to provide adequate warning labels. They claimed that "despite mounting evidence that long term metoclopramide use carries a risk of tardive dyskinesia far greater than that indicated on the label," none of the Manufacturers had changed their labels to adequately warn of that danger. Mensing v. Wyeth, Inc., 588 F. 3d 603, 605 (CA8 2009); see also Demahy v. Actavis, Inc., 593 F. 3d 428, 430 (CA5 2010).     In both suits, the Manufacturers urged that federal law pre-empted the state tort claims. According to the Manufacturers, federal statutes and FDA regulations required them to use the same safety and efficacy labeling as their brand-name counterparts. This means, they argued, that it was impossible to simultaneously comply with both federal law and any state tort-law duty that required them to use a different label.     The Courts of Appeals for the Fifth and Eighth Circuits rejected the Manufacturers' arguments and held that Men-sing and Demahy's claims were not pre-empted. See 588 F. 3d, at 614; 593 F. 3d, at 449. We granted certiorari, 562 U. S. ___ (2010), consolidated the cases, and now reverse each.II     Pre-emption analysis requires us to compare federal and state law. We therefore begin by identifying the state tort duties and federal labeling requirements applicable to the Manufacturers.A     It is undisputed that Minnesota and Louisiana tort law require a drug manufacturer that is or should be aware of its product's danger to label that product in a way that renders it reasonably safe. Under Minnesota law, which applies to Mensing's lawsuit, "where the manufacturer ... of a product has actual or constructive knowledge of danger to users, the ... manufacturer has a duty to give warning of such dangers." Frey v. Montgomery Ward & Co., 258 N. W. 2d 782, 788 (Minn. 1977). Similarly, under Louisiana law applicable to Demahy's lawsuit, "a manufacturer's duty to warn includes a duty to provide adequate instructions for safe use of a product." Stahl v. Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp., 283 F. 3d 254, 269-270 (CA5 2002); see also La. Rev. Stat. Ann. §9:2800.57 (West 2009). In both States, a duty to warn falls specifically on the manufacturer. See Marks v. OHMEDA, Inc., 2003-1446, pp. 8-9 (La. App. 3/31/04), 871 So. 2d 1148, 1155; Gray v. Badger Min. Corp., 676 N. W. 2d 268, 274 (Minn. 2004).     Mensing and Demahy have pleaded that the Manufacturers knew or should have known of the high risk of tardive dyskinesia inherent in the long-term use of their product. They have also pleaded that the Manufacturers knew or should have known that their labels did not adequately warn of that risk. App. 437-438, 67-69, 94-96. The parties do not dispute that, if these allegations are true, state law required the Manufacturers to use a different, safer label.B     Federal law imposes far more complex drug labeling requirements. We begin with what is not in dispute. Under the 1962 Drug Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 76 Stat. 780, 21 U. S. C. §301 et seq., a manufacturer seeking federal approval to market a new drug must prove that it is safe and effective and that the proposed label is accurate and adequate.1 See, e.g., 21 U. S. C. §§355(b)(1), (d); Wyeth v. Levine, 555 U. S. 555, 567 (2009). Meeting those requirements involves costly and lengthy clinical testing. §§355(b)(1)(A), (d); see also D. Beers, Generic and Innovator Drugs: A Guide to FDA Approval Requirements §2.02[A] (7th ed. 2008).     Originally, the same rules applied to all drugs. In 1984, however, Congress passed the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act, 98 Stat. 1585, commonly called the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. Under this law, "generic drugs" can gain FDA approval simply by showing equivalence to a reference listed drug that has already been approved by the FDA.2 21 U. S. C. §355(j)(2)(A). This allows manufacturers to develop generic drugs in-expensively, without duplicating the clinical trials already performed on the equivalent brand-name drug. A generic drug application must also "show that the [safety and efficacy] labeling proposed ... is the same as the labeling approved for the [brand-name] drug." §355(j)(2)(A)(v); see also §355(j)(4)(G); Beers §§3.01, 3.03[A].     As a result, brand-name and generic drug manufacturers have different federal drug labeling duties. A brand-name manufacturer seeking new drug approval is responsible for the accuracy and adequacy of its label. See, e.g., 21 U. S. C. §§355(b)(1), (d); Wyeth, supra, at 570-571. A manufacturer seeking generic drug approval, on the other hand, is responsible for ensuring that its warning label is the same as the brand name's. See, e.g., §355(j)(2)(A)(v); §355(j)(4)(G); 21 CFR §§314.94(a)(8), 314.127(a)(7).     The parties do not disagree. What is in dispute is whether, and to what extent, generic manufacturers may change their labels after initial FDA approval. Mensing and Demahy contend that federal law provided several avenues through which the Manufacturers could have altered their metoclopramide labels in time to prevent the injuries here. The FDA, however, tells us that it interprets its regulations to require that the warning labels of a brand-name drug and its generic copy must always be the same--thus, generic drug manufacturers have an ongoing federal duty of "sameness." U. S. Brief 16; see also 57 Fed. Reg. 17961 (1992) ("[T]he [generic drug's] labeling must be the same as the listed drug product's labeling because the listed drug product is the basis for [generic drug] ap-proval"). The FDA's views are "controlling unless plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation[s]" or there is any other reason to doubt that they reflect the FDA's fair and considered judgment. Auer v. Robbins, 519 U. S. 452, 461, 462 (1997) (internal quotation marks omitted).31     First, Mensing and Demahy urge that the FDA's "changes-being-effected" (CBE) process allowed the Manufacturers to change their labels when necessary. See Brief for Respondents 33-35; see also 593 F. 3d, at 439-444; Gaeta v. Perrigo Pharmaceuticals Co., 630 F. 3d 1225, 1231 (CA9 2011); Foster v. American Home Prods. Corp., 29 F. 3d 165, 170 (CA4 1994). The CBE process permits drug manufacturers to "add or strengthen a contraindication, warning, [or] precaution," 21 CFR §314.70(c)(6)(iii)(A) (2006), or to "add or strengthen an instruction about dosage and administration that is intended to increase the safe use of the drug product," §314.70(c)(6)(iii)(C). When making labeling changes using the CBE process, drug man-ufacturers need not wait for preapproval by the FDA, which ordinarily is necessary to change a label. Wyeth, supra, at 568. They need only simultaneously file a supplemental application with the FDA. 21 CFR §314.70(c)(6).     The FDA denies that the Manufacturers could have used the CBE process to unilaterally strengthen their warning labels. The agency interprets the CBE regulation to allow changes to generic drug labels only when a generic drug manufacturer changes its label to match an updated brand-name label or to follow the FDA's instructions. U. S. Brief 15, 16, n. 7 (interpreting 21 CFR §314.94(a)(8)(iv)); U. S. Brief 16, n. 8. The FDA argues that CBE changes unilaterally made to strengthen a generic drug's warning label would violate the statutes and regulations requiring a generic drug's label to match its brand-name counterpart's. Id., at 15-16; see also 21 U. S. C. §355(j)(4)(G); 21 CFR §§314.94(a)(8)(iii), 314.150(b)(10) (approval may be withdrawn if the generic drug's label "is no longer consistent with that for [the brand-name]").     We defer to the FDA's interpretation of its CBE and generic labeling regulations. Although Mensing and Demahy offer other ways to interpret the regulations, see Brief for Respondents 33-35, we do not find the agency's interpretation "plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation." Auer, supra, at 461 (internal quotation marks omitted). Nor do Mensing and Demahy suggest there is any other reason to doubt the agency's reading. We therefore conclude that the CBE process was not open to the Manufacturers for the sort of change required by state law.2     Next, Mensing and Demahy contend that the Manufacturers could have used "Dear Doctor" letters to send ad-ditional warnings to prescribing physicians and other healthcare professionals. See Brief for Respondents 36; 21 CFR §200.5. Again, the FDA disagrees, and we defer to the agency's views.     The FDA argues that Dear Doctor letters qualify as "labeling." U. S. Brief 18; see also 21 U. S. C. §321(m); 21 CFR §202.1(l)(2). Thus, any such letters must be "consistent with and not contrary to [the drug's] approved ... labeling." 21 CFR §201.100(d)(1). A Dear Doctor letter that contained substantial new warning information would not be consistent with the drug's approved labeling. Moreover, if generic drug manufacturers, but not the brand-name manufacturer, sent such letters, that would inaccurately imply a therapeutic difference between the brand and generic drugs and thus could be impermissibly "misleading." U. S. Brief 19; see 21 CFR §314.150(b)(3) (FDA may withdraw approval of a generic drug if "the labeling of the drug ... is false or misleading in any particular").     As with the CBE regulation, we defer to the FDA. Mensing and Demahy offer no argument that the FDA's interpretation is plainly erroneous. See Auer, 519 U. S., at 461. Accordingly, we conclude that federal law did not permit the Manufacturers to issue additional warnings through Dear Doctor letters.3     Though the FDA denies that the Manufacturers could have used the CBE process or Dear Doctor letters to strengthen their warning labels, the agency asserts that a different avenue existed for changing generic drug labels. According to the FDA, the Manufacturers could have proposed--indeed, were required to propose--stronger warning labels to the agency if they believed such warnings were needed. U. S. Brief 20; 57 Fed. Reg. 17961. If the FDA had agreed that a label change was necessary, it would have worked with the brand-name manufacturer to create a new label for both the brand-name and generic drug. Ibid.     The agency traces this duty to 21 U. S. C. §352(f)(2), which provides that a drug is "misbranded ... [u]nless its labeling bears ... adequate warnings against ... unsafe dosage or methods or duration of administration or application, in such manner and form, as are necessary for the protection of users." See U. S. Brief 12. By regulation, the FDA has interpreted that statute to require that "labeling shall be revised to include a warning as soon as there is reasonable evidence of an association of a serious hazard with a drug." 21 CFR §201.57(e).     According to the FDA, these requirements apply to ge-neric drugs. As it explains, a " 'central premise of federal drug regulation is that the manufacturer bears responsibility for the content of its label at all times.' " U. S. Brief 12-13 (quoting Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 570-571). The FDA reconciles this duty to have adequate and accurate labeling with the duty of sameness in the following way: Generic drug manufacturers that become aware of safety problems must ask the agency to work toward strengthening the label that applies to both the generic and brand-name equivalent drug. U. S. Brief 20.     The Manufacturers and the FDA disagree over whether this alleged duty to request a strengthened label actually existed. The FDA argues that it explained this duty in the preamble to its 1992 regulations implementing the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. Ibid.; see 57 Fed. Reg. 17961 ("If a [generic drug manufacturer] believes new safety information should be added to a product's labeling, it should contact FDA, and FDA will determine whether the labeling for the generic and listed drugs should be revised"). The Manufacturers claim that the FDA's 19-year-old statement did not create a duty, and that there is no evi-dence of any generic drug manufacturer ever acting pursuant to any such duty. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 19-24; Reply Brief for Petitioner PLIVA et al. 18-22. Because we ultimately find pre-emption even assuming such a duty existed, we do not resolve the matter.C     To summarize, the relevant state and federal requirements are these: State tort law places a duty directly on all drug manufacturers to adequately and safely label their products. Taking Mensing and Demahy's allegations as true, this duty required the Manufacturers to use a different, stronger label than the label they actually used. Federal drug regulations, as interpreted by the FDA, prevented the Manufacturers from independently changing their generic drugs' safety labels. But, we assume, federal law also required the Manufacturers to ask for FDA assistance in convincing the brand-name manufacturer to adopt a stronger label, so that all corresponding generic drug manufacturers could do so as well. We turn now to the question of pre-emption.III     The Supremacy Clause establishes that federal law "shall be the supreme Law of the Land ... any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding." U. S. Const., Art. VI, cl. 2. Where state and federal law "directly conflict," state law must give way. Wyeth, supra, at 583 (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment); see also Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council, 530 U. S. 363, 372 (2000) ("[S]tate law is naturally preempted to the extent of any conflict with a federal statute"). We have held that state and federal law conflict where it is "impossible for a private party to comply with both state and federal requirements."4 Freightliner Corp. v. Myrick, 514 U. S. 280, 287 (1995) (internal quotation marks omitted).5A     We find impossibility here. It was not lawful under federal law for the Manufacturers to do what state law required of them. And even if they had fulfilled their federal duty to ask for FDA assistance, they would not have satisfied the requirements of state law.     If the Manufacturers had independently changed their labels to satisfy their state-law duty, they would have violated federal law. Taking Mensing and Demahy's allegations as true, state law imposed on the Manufac-turers a duty to attach a safer label to their generic metoclopramide. Federal law, however, demanded that ge-neric drug labels be the same at all times as the corres-ponding brand-name drug labels. See, e.g., 21 CFR §314.150(b)(10). Thus, it was impossible for the Manufacturers to comply with both their state-law duty to change the label and their federal law duty to keep the label the same.     The federal duty to ask the FDA for help in strengthening the corresponding brand-name label, assuming such a duty exists, does not change this analysis. Although requesting FDA assistance would have satisfied the Man-ufacturers' federal duty, it would not have satisfied their state tort-law duty to provide adequate labeling. State law demanded a safer label; it did not instruct the Manufacturers to communicate with the FDA about the possibility of a safer label. Indeed, Mensing and Demahy deny that their state tort claims are based on the Manufacturers' alleged failure to ask the FDA for assistance in changing the labels. Brief for Respondents 53-54; cf. Buckman Co. v. Plaintiffs' Legal Comm., 531 U. S. 341 (2001) (holding that federal drug and medical device laws pre-empted a state tort-law claim based on failure to properly communicate with the FDA).B1     Mensing and Demahy contend that, while their state-law claims do not turn on whether the Manufacturers asked the FDA for assistance in changing their labels, the Manufacturers' federal affirmative defense of pre-emption does. Mensing and Demahy argue that if the Manufacturers had asked the FDA for help in changing the corresponding brand-name label, they might eventually have been able to accomplish under federal law what state law requires. That is true enough. The Manufacturers "freely concede" that they could have asked the FDA for help. PLIVA Brief 48. If they had done so, and if the FDA decided there was sufficient supporting information, and if the FDA undertook negotiations with the brand-name manufacturer, and if adequate label changes were decided on and implemented, then the Manufacturers would have started a Mouse Trap game that eventually led to a better label on generic metoclopramide.     This raises the novel question whether conflict pre-emption should take into account these possible actions by the FDA and the brand-name manufacturer. Here, what federal law permitted the Manufacturers to do could have changed, even absent a change in the law itself, depending on the actions of the FDA and the brand-name manufacturer. Federal law does not dictate the text of each generic drug's label, but rather ties those labels to their brand-name counterparts. Thus, federal law would permit the Manufacturers to comply with the state labeling requirements if, and only if, the FDA and the brand-name manufacturer changed the brand-name label to do so.     Mensing and Demahy assert that when a private party's ability to comply with state law depends on approval and assistance from the FDA, proving pre-emption requires that party to demonstrate that the FDA would not have allowed compliance with state law. Here, they argue, the Manufacturers cannot bear their burden of proving impossibility because they did not even try to start the process that might ultimately have allowed them to use a safer label. Brief for Respondents 47. This is a fair argument, but we reject it.     The question for "impossibility" is whether the private party could independently do under federal law what state law requires of it. See Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 573 (finding no pre-emption where the defendant could "unilaterally" do what state law required). Accepting Mensing and Demahy's argument would render conflict pre-emption largely meaningless because it would make most conflicts between state and federal law illusory. We can often imagine that a third party or the Federal Government might do something that makes it lawful for a private party to accomplish under federal law what state law requires of it. In these cases, it is certainly possible that, had the Manufacturers asked the FDA for help, they might have eventually been able to strengthen their warning label. Of course, it is also possible that the Manufacturers could have convinced the FDA to reinterpret its regulations in a manner that would have opened the CBE process to them. Following Mensing and Demahy's argument to its logical conclusion, it is also possible that, by asking, the Manufacturers could have persuaded the FDA to rewrite its generic drug regulations entirely or talked Congress into amending the Hatch-Waxman Amendments.     If these conjectures suffice to prevent federal and state law from conflicting for Supremacy Clause purposes, it is unclear when, outside of express pre-emption, the Supremacy Clause would have any force.6 We do not read the Supremacy Clause to permit an approach to pre-emption that renders conflict pre-emption all but meaningless. The Supremacy Clause, on its face, makes federal law "the supreme Law of the Land" even absent an express statement by Congress. U. S. Const., Art. VI, cl. 2.2     Moreover, the text of the Clause--that federal law shall be supreme, "any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding"--plainly contemplates conflict pre-emption by describing federal law as effectively repealing contrary state law. Ibid.; see Nelson, Preemption, 86 Va. L. Rev. 225, 234 (2000); id., at 252-253 (describing discussion of the Supremacy Clause in state ratification debates as concerning whether federal law could repeal state law, or vice versa). The phrase "any [state law] to the Contrary notwithstanding" is a non ob-stante provision. Id., at 238-240, nn. 43-45. Eighteenth-century legislatures used non obstante provisions to specify the degree to which a new statute was meant to repeal older, potentially conflicting statutes in the same field. Id., at 238-240 (citing dozens of statutes from the 1770's and 1780's with similar provisions). A non obstante provision "in a new statute acknowledged that the statute might contradict prior law and instructed courts not to apply the general presumption against implied repeals." Id., at 241-242; 4 M. Bacon, A New Abridgment of the Law 639 (4th ed. 1778) ("Although two Acts of Parliament are seemingly repugnant, yet if there be no Clause of non Obstante in the latter, they shall if possible have such Construction, that the latter may not be a Repeal of the former by Implication"). The non obstante provision in the Supremacy Clause therefore suggests that federal law should be understood to impliedly repeal conflicting state law.     Further, the provision suggests that courts should not strain to find ways to reconcile federal law with seemingly conflicting state law. Traditionally, courts went to great lengths attempting to harmonize conflicting statutes, in order to avoid implied repeals. Warder v. Arell, 2 Va. 282, 296 (1796) (opinion of Roane, J.) ("[W]e ought to seek for such a construction as will reconcile [the statutes] together"); Ludlow's Heirs v. Johnston, 3 Ohio 553, 564 (1828) ("[I]f by any fair course of reasoning the two [statutes] can be reconciled, both shall stand"); Doolittle v. Bryan, 14 How. 563, 566 (1853) (requiring "the repugnance be quite plain" before finding implied repeal). A non obstante provision thus was a useful way for legislatures to specify that they did not want courts distorting the new law to accommodate the old. Nelson, supra, at 240-242; see also J. Sutherland, Statutes and Statutory Construction §147, p. 199 (1891) ("[W]hen there is inserted in a statute a provision [of non obstante] ... . It is to be supposed that courts will be less inclined against recognizing repugnancy in applying such statutes"); Weston's Case, 73 Eng. Rep. 780, 781 (K. B. 1576) ("[W]hen there are two statutes, one in appearance crossing the other, and no clause of non obstante is contained in the second statute ... the exposition ought to be that both should stand in force"); G. Jacob, A New Law Dictionary (J. Morgan ed., 10th ed. 1782) (definition of "statute," ¶6: "[W]hen there is a seeming variance between two statutes, and no clause of non obstante in the latter, such construction shall be made that both may stand"). The non obstante provision of he Supremacy Clause indicates that a court need look no further than "the ordinary meanin[g]" of federal law, and should not distort federal law to accommodate conflicting state law. Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 588 (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (internal quotation marks omitted).     To consider in our pre-emption analysis the contingencies inherent in these cases--in which the Manufacturers' ability to comply with state law depended on uncertain federal agency and third-party decisions--would be inconsistent with the non obstante provision of the Supremacy Clause. The Manufacturers would be required continually to prove the counterfactual conduct of the FDA and brand-name manufacturer in order to establish the supremacy of federal law. We do not think the Supremacy Clause contemplates that sort of contingent supremacy. The non obstante provision suggests that pre-emption analysis should not involve speculation about ways in which federal agency and third-party actions could potentially reconcile federal duties with conflicting state duties. When the "ordinary meaning" of federal law blocks a private party from independently accomplishing what state law requires, that party has established pre-emption.3     To be sure, whether a private party can act sufficiently independently under federal law to do what state law requires may sometimes be difficult to determine. But this is not such a case. Before the Manufacturers could satisfy state law, the FDA--a federal agency--had to undertake special effort permitting them to do so. To decide these cases, it is enough to hold that when a party cannot satisfy its state duties without the Federal Government's special permission and assistance, which is dependent on the exercise of judgment by a federal agency, that party cannot independently satisfy those state duties for pre-emption purposes.     Here, state law imposed a duty on the Manufacturers to take a certain action, and federal law barred them from taking that action. The only action the Manufacturers could independently take--asking for the FDA's help--is not a matter of state-law concern. Mensing and Demahy's tort claims are pre-empted.C     Wyeth is not to the contrary. In that case, as here, the plaintiff contended that a drug manufacturer had breached a state tort-law duty to provide an adequate warning label. 555 U. S., at 559-560. The Court held that the lawsuit was not pre-empted because it was possible for Wyeth, a brand-name drug manufacturer, to comply with both state and federal law. Id., at 572-573.7 Specifically, the CBE regulation, 21 CFR §314.70(c)(6)(iii), permitted a brand-name drug manufacturer like Wyeth "to unilaterally strengthen its warning" without prior FDA approval. 555 U. S., at 573; cf. supra, at 7-8. Thus, the federal regulations applicable to Wyeth allowed the company, of its own volition, to strengthen its label in compliance with its state tort duty.8     We recognize that from the perspective of Mensing and Demahy, finding pre-emption here but not in Wyeth makes little sense. Had Mensing and Demahy taken Reglan, the brand-name drug prescribed by their doctors, Wyeth would control and their lawsuits would not be pre-empted. But because pharmacists, acting in full accord with state law, substituted generic metoclopramide instead, federal law pre-empts these lawsuits. See, e.g., Minn. Stat. §151.21 (2010) (describing when pharmacists may substitute ge-neric drugs); La. Rev. Stat. Ann. §37:1241(A)(17) (West 2007) (same). We acknowledge the unfortunate hand that federal drug regulation has dealt Mensing, Demahy, and others similarly situated.9     But "it is not this Court's task to decide whether the statutory scheme established by Congress is unusual or even bizarre." Cuomo v. Clearing House Assn., L. L. C., 557 U. S. ___, ___ (2009) (Thomas, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) (slip op., at 21) (internal quotation marks and brackets omitted). It is beyond dispute that the federal statutes and regulations that apply to brand-name drug manufacturers are meaningfully different than those that apply to generic drug manufacturers. Indeed, it is the special, and different, regulation of generic drugs that allowed the generic drug market to expand, bringing more drugs more quickly and cheaply to the public. But different federal statutes and regulations may, as here, lead to different pre-emption results. We will not distort the Supremacy Clause in order to create similar pre-emption across a dissimilar statutory scheme. As always, Congress and the FDA retain the authority to change the law and regulations if they so desire.*??*??*     The judgments of the Fifth and Eighth Circuits are reversed, and the cases are remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.PLIVA, INC., et al., PETITIONERS09-993     v.GLADYS MENSINGACTAVIS ELIZABETH, LLC, PETITIONER09-1039     v.GLADYS MENSINGACTAVIS, INC., PETITIONER09-1501     v.JULIE DEMAHYon writs of certiorari to the united states courts of appeals for the eighth and fifth circuits[June 23, 2011]     Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Ginsburg, Justice Breyer, and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.     The Court today invokes the doctrine of impossibility pre-emption to hold that federal law immunizes generic-drug manufacturers from all state-law failure-to-warn claims because they cannot unilaterally change their la-bels. I cannot agree. We have traditionally held defendants claiming impossibility to a demanding standard: Until today, the mere possibility of impossibility had not been enough to establish pre-emption.     The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) permits--and, the Court assumes, requires--generic-drug manufacturers to propose a label change to the FDA when they believe that their labels are inadequate. If it agrees that the labels are inadequate, the FDA can initiate a change to the brand-name label, triggering a corresponding change to the generic labels. Once that occurs, a generic manufacturer is in full compliance with both federal law and a state-law duty to warn. Although generic manufacturers may be able to show impossibility in some cases, petitioners, generic manufacturers of metoclopramide (Manufacturers), have shown only that they might have been unable to comply with both federal law and their state-law duties to warn respondents Gladys Mensing and Julie Demahy. This, I would hold, is insufficient to sustain their burden.     The Court strains to reach the opposite conclusion. It invents new principles of pre-emption law out of thin air to justify its dilution of the impossibility standard. It effectively rewrites our decision in Wyeth v. Levine, 555 U. S. 555 (2009), which holds that federal law does not pre-empt failure-to-warn claims against brand-name drug manufacturers. And a plurality of the Court tosses aside our repeated admonition that courts should hesitate to conclude that Congress intended to pre-empt state laws governing health and safety. As a result of today's decision, whether a consumer harmed by inadequate warnings can obtain relief turns solely on the happenstance of whether her pharmacist filled her prescription with a brand-name or generic drug. The Court gets one thing right: This outcome "makes little sense." Ante, at 18.IA      Today's decision affects 75 percent of all prescription drugs dispensed in this country. The dominant position of generic drugs in the prescription drug market is the result of a series of legislative measures, both federal and state.     In 1984, Congress enacted the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act, 98 Stat. 1585--commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA)--to "make available more low cost generic drugs by establishing a generic drug approval procedure," H. R. Rep. No. 98-857, pt. 1, p. 14 (1984). As the majority explains, to accomplish this goal the amendments establish an abbreviated application process for generic drugs. Ante, at 5-6; see also 21 U. S. C. §355(j)(2)(A). The abbreviated approval process implements the amendments' core principle that generic and brand-name drugs must be the "same" in nearly all respects: To obtain FDA approval, a generic manufacturer must ordinarily show, among other things, that its product has the same active ingredients as an approved brand-name drug; that "the route of adminis-tration, the dosage form, and the strength of the new drug are the same" as the brand-name drug; and that its product is "bioequivalent" to the brand-name drug. §§355(j)(2)(A)(ii), (iii), (iv). By eliminating the need for generic manufacturers to prove their drugs' safety and efficacy independently, the Hatch-Waxman Amendments allow generic manufacturers to bring drugs to market much less expensively.     The States have also acted to expand consumption of low-cost generic drugs. In the years leading up to passage of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, States enacted legislation authorizing pharmacists to substitute generic drugs when filling prescriptions for brand-name drugs. Christensen, Kirking, Ascione, Welage, & Gaither, Drug Product Selection: Legal Issues, 41 J. Am. Pharmaceutical Assn. 868, 869 (2001). Currently, all States have some form of generic substitution law. See ibid. Some States require generic substitution in certain circumstances. Dept. of Health and Human Servs., ASPE Issue Brief: Expanding the Use of Generic Drugs 7 (2010) (hereinafter Expanding the Use of Generic Drugs);1 see, e.g., N. Y. Educ. Law Ann. §6816-a (West 2010). Others permit, but do not require, substitution. Expanding the Use of Generic Drugs 7; see, e.g., Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code Ann. §4073 (West Supp. 2011). Some States require patient consent to substitution, and all States "allow the physician to specify that the brand name must be prescribed, although with different levels of effort from the physician." Expanding the Use of Generic Drugs 7.2     These legislative efforts to expand production and consumption of generic drugs have proved wildly successful. It is estimated that in 1984, when the Hatch-Waxman Amendments were enacted, generic drugs constituted 19 percent of drugs sold in this country. Congressional Bud-get Office, How Increased Competition from Generic Drugs Has Affected Prices and Returns in the Pharmaceutical Industry 27 (1998).3 Today, they dominate the market. See Expanding the Use of Generic Drugs 2 (generic drugs constituted 75 percent of all dispensed prescription drugs in 2009). Ninety percent of drugs for which a generic version is available are now filled with generics. Id., at 3-4. In many cases, once generic versions of a drug enter the market, the brand-name manufacturer stops selling the brand-name drug altogether. See Brief for Marc T. Law et al. as Amici Curiae 18 (citing studies showing that anywhere from one-third to one-half of generic drugs no longer have a marketed brand-name equivalent). Reflecting the success of their products, many generic manufacturers, including the Manufacturers and their amici, are huge, multinational companies. In total, generic drug manufacturers sold an estimated $66 billion of drugs in this country in 2009. See id., at 15.B     As noted, to obtain FDA approval a generic manufacturer must generally show that its drug is the same as an approved brand-name drug. It need not conduct clinical trials to prove the safety and efficacy of the drug. This does not mean, however, that a generic manufacturer has no duty under federal law to ensure the safety of its products. The FDA has limited resources to conduct postapproval monitoring of drug safety. See Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 578. Manufacturers, we have recognized, "have superior access to information about their drugs, especially in the postmarketing phase as new risks emerge." Id., at 578-579. Federal law thus obliges drug manufacturers--both brand-name and generic--to monitor the safety of their products.     Under federal law, generic manufacturers must "develop written procedures for the surveillance, receipt, evaluation, and reporting of postmarketing adverse drug experiences" to the FDA.4 21 CFR §314.80(b);5 see also §314.98 (making §314.80 applicable to generic manufacturers); Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 6, and n. 2 (hereinafter U. S. Brief). They must review all reports of adverse drug experiences received from "any source." §314.80(b). If a manufacturer receives a report of a serious and unexpected adverse drug experience, it must re-port the event to the FDA within 15 days and must "promptly investigate." §§314.80(c)(1)(i)-(ii); see also Tr. of Oral Arg. 8. Most other adverse drug experiences must be reported on a quarterly or yearly basis.6 §314.80(c)(2). Generic manufacturers must also submit to the FDA an annual report summarizing "significant new information from the previous year that might affect the safety, ef-fectiveness, or labeling of the drug product," including a "description of actions the [manufacturer] has taken or intends to take as a result of this new information." §314.81(b)(2)(i); see also §314.98(c).     Generic manufacturers, the majority assumes, also bear responsibility under federal law for monitoring the adequacy of their warnings. I agree with the majority's conclusion that generic manufacturers are not permitted unilaterally to change their labels through the "changes-being-effected" (CBE) process or to issue additional warnings through "Dear Doctor" letters. See ante, at 6-9. According to the FDA, however, that generic manufacturers cannot disseminate additional warnings on their own does not mean that federal law permits them to remain idle when they conclude that their labeling is inadequate. FDA regulations require that labeling "be revised to include a warning as soon as there is reasonable evidence of an association of a serious hazard with a drug." 21 CFR §201.57(e) (2006), currently codified at 21 CFR §201.80(e) (2010); see also Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 570-571. The FDA construes this regulation to oblige generic manufacturers "to seek to revise their labeling and provide FDA with supporting information about risks" when they believe that additional warnings are necessary.7 U. S. Brief 20.     The Manufacturers disagree. They read the FDA regulation to require them only to ensure that their labels match the brand-name labels. See Brief for Petitioner PLIVA et al. 38-41. I need not decide whether the regulation in fact obliges generic manufacturers to approach the FDA to propose a label change. The majority assumes that it does. And even if generic manufacturers do not have a duty to propose label changes, two points remain undisputed. First, they do have a duty under federal law to monitor the safety of their products. And, second, they may approach the FDA to propose a label change when they believe a change is required.II     This brings me to the Manufacturers' pre-emption defense. State law obliged the Manufacturers to warn of dangers to users. See Hines v. Remington Arms Co., 94-0455, p. 10 (La. 12/8/94), 648 So. 2d 331, 337; Frey v. Montgomery Ward & Co., 258 N. W. 2d 782, 788 (Minn. 1977). The Manufacturers contend, and the majority agrees, that federal law pre-empts respondents' failure-to-warn claims because, under federal law, the Manufac-turers could not have provided additional warnings to respondents without the exercise of judgment by the FDA. I cannot endorse this novel conception of impossibility pre-emption.A     Two principles guide all pre-emption analysis. First, " 'the purpose of Congress is the ultimate touchstone in every pre-emption case.' " Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 565 (quoting Medtronic, Inc. v. Lohr, 518 U. S. 470, 485 (1996)). Second, " '[i]n all pre-emption cases, and particularly in those in which Congress has legislated . . . in a field which the States have traditionally occupied, . . . we start with the assumption that the historic police powers of the States were not to be superseded by the Federal Act unless that was the clear and manifest purpose of Congress.' " Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 565 (quoting Lohr, 518 U. S., at 485; some internal quotation marks omitted; alterations in original).     These principles find particular resonance in these cases. The States have traditionally regulated health and safety matters. See id., at 485. Notwithstanding Congress' "certain awareness of the prevalence of state tort litigation" against drug manufacturers, Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 575, Congress has not expressly pre-empted state-law tort actions against prescription drug manufacturers, whether brand-name or generic. To the contrary, when Congress amended the FDCA in 1962 to "enlarg[e] the FDA's powers to 'protect the public health' and 'assure the safety, effectiveness, and reliability of drugs,' [it] took care to preserve state law." Id., at 567 (quoting 76 Stat. 780); see Pub. L. 87-781, §202, 76 Stat. 793 ("Nothing in the amendments made by this Act to the [FDCA] shall be construed as invalidating any provision of State law which would be valid in the absence of such amendments unless there is a direct and positive conflict between such amendments and such provision of State law"). Notably, although Congress enacted an express pre-emption provision for medical devices in 1976, see Pub. L. 94-295, §521, 90 Stat. 574, 21 U. S. C. §360k(a), it included no such provision in the Hatch-Waxman Amendments eight years later. Cf. Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 567, 574-575. Congress' "silence on the issue . . . is powerful evidence that [it] did not intend FDA oversight to be the exclusive means of ensuring drug safety and effectiveness." Id., at 575.B     Federal law impliedly pre-empts state law when state and federal law "conflict"--i.e., when "it is impossible for a private party to comply with both state and federal law" or when state law "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress." Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council, 530 U. S. 363, 372-373 (2000) (internal quotation marks omitted). The Manufacturers rely solely on the former ground of pre-emption.     Impossibility pre-emption, we have emphasized, "is a de-manding defense." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 573. Because pre-emption is an affirmative defense, a defendant seeking to set aside state law bears the burden to prove impossibility. See ibid.; Silkwood v. Kerr-McGee Corp., 464 U. S. 238, 255 (1984). To prevail on this defense, a defendant must demonstrate that "compliance with both federal and state [law] is a physical impossibility." Florida Lime & Avocado Growers, Inc. v. Paul, 373 U. S. 132, 142-143 (1963); see also Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 573. In other words, there must be an "inevitable collision" between federal and state law. Florida Lime, 373 U. S., at 143. "The existence of a hypothetical or potential conflict is insufficient to warrant" pre-emption of state law. Rice v. Norman Williams Co., 458 U. S. 654, 659 (1982); see also Gade v. National Solid Wastes Management Assn., 505 U. S. 88, 110 (1992) (Kennedy, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment). In other words, the mere possibility of impossibility is not enough.     The Manufacturers contend that it was impossible for them to provide additional warnings to respondents Men-sing and Demahy because federal law prohibited them from changing their labels unilaterally.8 They concede, however, that they could have asked the FDA to initiate a label change. If the FDA agreed that a label change was required, it could have asked, and indeed pressured, the brand-name manufacturer to change its label, triggering a corresponding change to the Manufacturers' generic la-bels.9 Thus, had the Manufacturers invoked the available mechanism for initiating label changes, they may well have been able to change their labels in sufficient time to warn respondents. Having failed to do so, the Manufacturers cannot sustain their burden (at least not without further factual development) to demonstrate that it was impossible for them to comply with both federal and state law. At most, they have demonstrated only "a hypothetical or potential conflict." Rice, 458 U. S., at 659.     Like the majority, the Manufacturers focus on the fact that they cannot change their labels unilaterally--which distinguishes them from the brand-name-manufacturer defendant in Wyeth. They correctly point out that in Wyeth we concluded that the FDA's CBE regulation authorized the defendant to strengthen its warnings before receiving agency approval of its supplemental application describing the label change. 555 U. S., at 568-571; see also 21 CFR §314.70(c)(6). But the defendant's label change was contingent on FDA acceptance, as the FDA retained "authority to reject labeling changes made pursuant to the CBE regulation." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 571. Thus, in the long run, a brand-name manufacturer's compliance with a state-law duty to warn required action by two actors: The brand-name manufacturer had to change the label and the FDA, upon reviewing the supplemental application, had to agree with the change.10 The need for FDA approval of the label change did not make compliance with federal and state law impossible in every case. Instead, because the defendant bore the burden to show impossibility, we required it to produce "clear evidence that the FDA would not have approved a change to [the] label." Ibid.     I would apply the same approach in these cases. State law, respondents allege, required the Manufacturers to provide a strengthened warning about the dangers of long-term metoclopramide use.11 Just like the brand-name manufacturer in Wyeth, the Manufacturers had available to them a mechanism for attempting to comply with their state-law duty to warn. Federal law thus "accommodated" the Manufacturers' state-law duties. See ante, at 18, n. 8. It was not necessarily impossible for the Manufacturers to comply with both federal and state law because, had they approached the FDA, the FDA may well have agreed that a label change was necessary. Accordingly, as in Wyeth, I would require the Manufacturers to show that the FDA would not have approved a proposed label change. They have not made such a showing: They do "not argue that [they] attempted to give the kind of warning required by [state law] but [were] prohibited from doing so by the FDA." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 572.     This is not to say that generic manufacturers could never show impossibility. If a generic-manufacturer defendant proposed a label change to the FDA but the FDA rejected the proposal, it would be impossible for that defendant to comply with a state-law duty to warn. Likewise, impossibility would be established if the FDA had not yet responded to a generic manufacturer's request for a label change at the time a plaintiff's injuries arose. A generic manufacturer might also show that the FDA had itself considered whether to request enhanced warnings in light of the evidence on which a plaintiff's claim rests but had decided to leave the warnings as is. (The Manufacturers make just such an argument in these cases. See, e.g., Brief for Petitioner Actavis et al. 11.) But these are questions of fact to be established through discovery. Because the burden of proving impossibility falls on the defendant, I would hold that federal law does not render it impossible for generic manufacturers to comply with a state-law duty to warn as a categorical matter.     This conclusion flows naturally from the overarching prin-ciples governing our pre-emption doctrine. See supra, at 8. Our "respect for the States as 'independent sovereigns in our federal system' leads us to assume that 'Congress does not cavalierly pre-empt state-law causes of action.' " Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 565-566, n. 3 (quoting Lohr, 518 U. S., at 485). It is for this reason that we hold defendants asserting impossibility to a "demanding" standard. Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 573. This presumption against pre-emption has particular force when the Federal Government has afforded defendants a mechanism for complying with state law, even when that mechanism requires federal agency action. (The presumption has even greater force when federal law requires defendants to invoke that mechanism, as the majority assumes in these cases.) In such circumstances, I would hold, defendants will usually be unable to sustain their burden of showing impossibility if they have not even attempted to employ that mechanism. Any other approach threatens to infringe the States' authority over traditional matters of state interest--such as the failure-to-warn claims here--when Congress expressed no intent to pre-empt state law.C     The majority concedes that the Manufacturers might have been able to accomplish under federal law what state law requires. Ante, at 12-13. To reach the conclusion that the Manufacturers have nonetheless satisfied their bur-den to show impossibility, the majority invents a new pre-emption rule: "The question for 'impossibility' is whether the private party could independently do under federal law what state law requires of it." Ante, at 13 (emphasis added). Because the Manufacturers could not have changed their labels without the exercise of judgment by the FDA, the majority holds, compliance with both state and federal law was impossible in these cases.12     The majority's new test has no basis in our precedents. The majority cites only Wyeth in support of its test. As discussed above, however, Wyeth does not stand for the proposition that it is impossible to comply with both federal and state law whenever federal agency approval is required. To the contrary, label changes by brand-name manufacturers such as Wyeth are subject to FDA review and acceptance. See supra, at 11-12. And, even if Wyeth could be characterized as turning on the fact that the brand-name manufacturer could change its label unilaterally, the possibility of unilateral action was, at most, a sufficient condition for rejecting the impossibility defense in that case. Wyeth did not hold that unilateral action is a necessary condition in every case.     With so little support in our case law, the majority un-derstandably turns to other rationales. None of the rationales that it offers, however, makes any sense. First, it offers a reductio ad absurdum: If the possibility of FDA approval of a label change is sufficient to avoid conflict in these cases, it warns, as a "logical conclusion" so too would be the possibility that the FDA might rewrite its regulations or that Congress might amend the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. Ante, at 14. The logic of this conclusion escapes me. Conflict analysis necessarily turns on existing law. It thus would be ridiculous to conclude that federal and state law do not conflict on the ground that the defendant could have asked a federal agency or Congress to change the law. Here, by contrast, the Manufacturers' compliance with their state-law duty to warn did not re-quire them to ask for a change in federal law, as the majority itself recognizes. See ante, at 13 ("[F]ederal law would permit the Manufacturers to comply with the state labeling requirements if, and only if, the FDA and the brand-name manufacturer changed the brand-name label to do so"). The FDA already afforded them a mechanism for attempting to comply with their state-law duties. Indeed, the majority assumes that FDA regulations required the Manufacturers to request a label change when they had "reasonable evidence of an association of a serious hazard with a drug." 21 CFR §201.57(e).     Second, the majority suggests that any other approach would render conflict pre-emption "illusory" and "meaning-less." Ante, at 14. It expresses concern that, without a robust view of what constitutes conflict, the Supremacy Clause would not have "any force" except in cases of express pre-emption. Ibid. To the extent the majority's purported concern is driven by its reductio ad absurdum, see ante, at 14, n. 6, that concern is itself illusory, for the reasons just stated. To the extent the majority is concerned that our traditionally narrow view of what constitutes impossibility somehow renders conflict pre-emption as a whole meaningless, that concern simply makes no sense: We have repeatedly recognized that conflict pre-emption may be found, even absent impossibility, where state law "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress." Crosby, 530 U. S., at 373 (internal quotation marks omitted); see, e.g., Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861, 886 (2000); Barnett Bank of Marion Cty., N. A. v. Nelson, 517 U. S. 25, 31 (1996); Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941). The majority's expansive view of impossibility is thus unnecessary to prevent conflict pre-emption from losing all meaning.13     Third, a plurality of the Court adopts the novel theory that the Framers intended for the Supremacy Clause to operate as a so-called non obstante provision. See ante, at 15-17 (citing Nelson, Preemption, 86 Va. L. Rev. 225 (2000)). According to the plurality, non obstante provisions in statutes "instruc[t] courts not to apply the general presumption against implied repeals." Ante, at 15 (internal quotation marks omitted); see also ante, at 16 (stating that when a statute contains a non obstante provision, " 'courts will be less inclined against recognizing repugnancy in applying such statutes' " (quoting J. Sutherland, Statutes and Statutory Construction §147, p. 199 (1891)). From this understanding of the Supremacy Clause, the plurality extrapolates the principle that "courts should not strain to find ways to reconcile federal law with seemingly conflicting state law." Ante, at 15.     This principle would have been news to the Congress that enacted the Hatch-Waxman Amendments in 1984: Our precedents hold just the opposite. For more than half a century, we have directed courts to presume that congressional action does not supersede "the historic police powers of the States . . . unless that was the clear and manifest purpose of Congress." Rice v. Santa Fe Elevator Corp., 331 U. S. 218, 230 (1947); see also Gade, 505 U. S., at 111-112 (Kennedy, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment). We apply this presumption against pre-emption both where Congress has spoken to the pre-emption question and where it has not. See Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 566, n. 3. In the context of express pre-emption, we read federal statutes whenever possible not to pre-empt state law. See Altria Group, Inc. v. Good, 555 U. S. 70, 77 (2008) ("[W]hen the text of a pre-emption clause is susceptible of more than one plausible reading, courts ordinarily 'accept the reading that disfavors pre-emption' " (quoting Bates v. Dow Agrosciences LLC, 544 U. S. 431, 449 (2005))); see also Cipollone v. Liggett Group, Inc., 505 U. S. 504, 518 (1992). And, when the claim is that federal law impliedly pre-empts state law, we require a "strong" showing of a conflict "to overcome the presumption that state and local regulation . . . can constitutionally coexist with federal regulation." Hillsborough County v. Automated Medical Laboratories, Inc., 471 U. S. 707, 716 (1985).     The plurality's new theory of the Supremacy Clause is a direct assault on these precedents.14 Whereas we have long presumed that federal law does not pre-empt, or repeal, state law, the plurality today reads the Supremacy Clause to operate as a provision instructing courts "not to apply the general presumption against implied repeals." Ante, at 15 (internal quotation marks omitted; emphasis added). And whereas we have long required evidence of a "clear and manifest" purpose to pre-empt, Rice, 331 U. S., at 230, the plurality now instructs courts to "look no further than the ordinary meaning of federal law" before concluding that Congress must have intended to cast aside state law, ante, at 16 (internal quotation marks and alteration omitted).     That the plurality finds it necessary to resort to this novel theory of the Supremacy Clause--a theory advocated by no party or amici in these cases--is telling. Proper application of the longstanding presumption against pre-emption compels the conclusion that federal law does not render compliance with state law impossible merely because it requires an actor to seek federal agency approval. When federal law provides actors with a mech-anism for attempting to comply with their state-law duties, "respect for the States as 'independent sovereigns in our federal system' " should require those actors to attempt to comply with state law before being heard to complain that compliance with both laws was impossible. Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 565-566, n. 3 (quoting Lohr, 518 U. S., at 485).III     Today's decision leads to so many absurd consequences that I cannot fathom that Congress would have intended to pre-empt state law in these cases.     First, the majority's pre-emption analysis strips generic-drug consumers of compensation when they are injured by inadequate warnings. "If Congress had intended to deprive injured parties of [this] long available form of compensation, it surely would have expressed that intent more clearly." Bates, 544 U. S., at 449. Given the longstanding existence of product liability actions, including for failure to warn, "[i]t is difficult to believe that Congress would, without comment, remove all means of judicial recourse for those injured by illegal conduct." Silkwood, 464 U. S., at 251; see also Bruesewitz v. Wyeth LLC, 562 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 16) (noting our previously expressed "doubt that Congress would quietly preempt product-liability claims without providing a federal substitute"). In concluding that Congress silently immunized generic manufacturers from all failure-to-warn claims, the majority disregards our previous hesitance to infer congressional intent to effect such a sweeping change in traditional state-law remedies.     As the majority itself admits, a drug consumer's right to compensation for inadequate warnings now turns on the happenstance of whether her pharmacist filled her pre-scription with a brand-name drug or a generic. If a consumer takes a brand-name drug, she can sue the manufacturer for inadequate warnings under our opinion in Wyeth. If, however, she takes a generic drug, as occurs 75 percent of the time, she now has no right to sue. The majority offers no reason to think--apart from its new articulation of the impossibility standard--that Congress would have intended such an arbitrary distinction. In some States, pharmacists must dispense generic drugs absent instruction to the contrary from a consumer's physician. Even when consumers can request brand-name drugs, the price of the brand-name drug or the consumers' insurance plans may make it impossible to do so. As a result, in many cases, consumers will have no ability to preserve their state-law right to recover for injuries caused by inadequate warnings.     Second, the majority's decision creates a gap in the parallel federal-state regulatory scheme in a way that could have troubling consequences for drug safety. As we explained in Wyeth, "[s]tate tort suits uncover unknown drug hazards and provide incentives for drug manufacturers to disclose safety risks promptly." 555 U. S., at 579. Thus, we recognized, "state law offers an additional, and important, layer of consumer protection that complements FDA regulation." Ibid. Today's decision eliminates the traditional state-law incentives for generic manufacturers to monitor and disclose safety risks. When a generic drug has a brand-name equivalent on the market, the brand-name manufacturer will remain incentivized to uncover safety risks. But brand-name manufacturers often leave the market once generic versions are available, see supra, at 4-5, meaning that there will be no manufacturer subject to failure-to-warn liability. As to those generic drugs, there will be no "additional . . . layer of consumer protection." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 579.     Finally, today's decision undoes the core principle of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments that generic and brand-name drugs are the "same" in nearly all respects.15 See Brief for Rep. Henry A. Waxman as Amicus Curiae 9. The majority pins the expansion of the generic drug market on "the special, and different, regulation of generic drugs," which allows generic manufacturers to produce their drugs more cheaply. Ante, at 19. This tells only half the story. The expansion of the market for generic drugs has also flowed from the increased acceptance of, and trust in, generic drugs by consumers, physicians, and state legislators alike.     Today's decision introduces a critical distinction between brand-name and generic drugs. Consumers of brand-name drugs can sue manufacturers for inadequate warnings; consumers of generic drugs cannot. These divergent liability rules threaten to reduce consumer demand for generics, at least among consumers who can afford brand-name drugs. They may pose "an ethical dilemma" for prescribing physicians. Brief for American Medical Association et al. as Amici Curiae 29. And they may well cause the States to rethink their longstanding efforts to promote generic use through generic substitution laws. See Brief for National Conference of State Legislators as Amicus Curiae 15 (state generic substitution laws "have proceeded on the premise that . . . generic drugs are not, from citizens' perspective, materially different from brand ones, except for the lower price"). These consequences are directly at odds with the Hatch-Waxman Amendments' goal of increasing consumption of generic drugs.     Nothing in the Court's opinion convinces me that, in enacting the requirement that generic labels match their corresponding brand-name labels, Congress intended these absurd results. The Court certainly has not shown that such was the "clear and manifest purpose of Congress." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 565 (internal quotation marks omitted; emphasis added). To the contrary, because federal law affords generic manufacturers a mechanism for attempting to comply with their state-law duties to warn, I would hold that federal law does not categorically pre-empt state-law failure-to-warn claims against generic manufacturers. Especially in light of the presumption against pre-emption, the burden should fall on generic manufacturers to show that compliance was impossible on the particular facts of their case. By holding that the "possibility of possibility" is insufficient to "defea[t]" pre-emption in these cases, ante, at 18, n. 8, the Court contorts our pre-emption doctrine and exempts defendants from their burden to establish impossibility. With respect, I dissent.FOOTNOTESThe Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (BAPCPA) amended the Bankruptcy Code to define a class of bankruptcy professionals termed "debt relief agenc[ies]." 11 U. S. C. §101(12A). That class includes, with limited exceptions, "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person ... for ... payment ... , or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." Ibid. The BAPCPA prohibits such professionals from "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt in contemplation of [filing for bankruptcy] ... ." §526(a)(4). It also requires them to disclose in their advertisements for certain services that the services are with respect to or may involve bankruptcy relief, §§528(a)(3), (b)(2)(A), and to identify themselves as debt relief agencies, §§528(a)(4), (b)(2)(B).          The plaintiffs in this litigation--a law firm and others (collectively Milavetz)--filed a preenforcement suit seeking declaratory relief, arguing that Milavetz is not bound by the BAPCPA's debt-relief-agency provisions and therefore can freely advise clients to incur additional debt and need not make the requisite disclosures in its advertisements. The District Court found that "debt relief agency" does not include attorneys and that §§526 and 528 are unconstitutional as applied to that class of professionals. The Eighth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part, rejecting the District Court's conclusion that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]"; upholding application of §528's disclosure requirements to attorneys; and finding §526(a)(4) unconstitutional because it broadly prohibits debt relief agencies from advising assisted persons to incur any additional debt in contemplation of bankruptcy even when the advice constitutes prudent prebankruptcy planning.Held:     1. Attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are debt relief agencies under the BAPCPA. By definition, "bankruptcy assistance" includes several services commonly performed by attorneys, e.g., providing "advice, counsel, [or] document preparation," §101(4A). Moreover, in enumerating specific exceptions to the debt-relief-agency definition, Congress indicated no intent to exclude attorneys. See §§101(12A)(A)-(E). Milavetz relies on the fact that §101(12A) does not expressly include attorneys in advocating a narrower understanding. On that reading, only a bankruptcy petition preparer would qualify--an implausibility given that a "debt relief agency" is "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance ... or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer," ibid. Milavetz's other arguments for excluding attorneys are also unpersuasive. Pp. 5-9.     2. Section 526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising a debtor to incur more debt because the debtor is filing for bankruptcy, rather than for a valid purpose. The statute's language, together with its purpose, makes a narrow reading of §526(a)(4) the natural one. Conrad, Rubin & Lesser v. Pender, 289 U. S. 472, supports this conclusion. The Court in that case read now-repealed §96(d), which authorized reexamination of a debtor's attorney's fees payment "in contemplation of the filing of a petition," to require that the portended bankruptcy have "induce[d]" the transfer at issue, id., at 477, understanding inducement to engender suspicion of abuse. The Court identified the "controlling question" as "whether the thought of bankruptcy was the impelling cause of the transaction," ibid. Given the substantial similarities between §§96(d) and 526(a)(4), the controlling question under the latter is likewise whether the impelling reason for "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt" was the prospect of filing for bankruptcy. In practice, advice impelled by the prospect of filing will generally consist of advice to "load up" on debt with the expectation of obtaining its discharge. The statutory context supports the conclusion that §526(a)(4)'s prohibition primarily targets this type of conduct. The Court rejects Milavetz's arguments for a more expansive view of §526(a)(4) and its claim that the provision, narrowly construed, is impermissibly vague. Pp. 9-18.     3. Section 528's disclosure requirements are valid as applied to Milavetz. Consistent with Milavetz's characterization, the Court presumes that this is an as-applied challenge. Because §528 is directed at misleading commercial speech and imposes only a disclosure requirement rather than an affirmative limitation on speech, the less exacting scrutiny set out in Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626, governs. There, the Court found that, while unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements offend the First Amendment, "an advertiser's rights are adequately protected as long as disclosure requirements are reasonably related to the State's interest in preventing deception of consumers." Id., at 651. Section 528's requirements share the essential features of the rule challenged in Zauderer. The disclosures are intended to combat the problem of inherently misleading commercial advertisements, and they entail only an accurate statement of the advertiser's legal status and the character of the assistance provided. Moreover, they do not prevent debt relief agencies from conveying any additional information through their advertisements. In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191, distinguished. Because §528's requirements are "reasonably related" to the Government's interest in preventing consumer deception, the Court upholds those provisions as applied to Milavetz. Pp. 18-23.541 F. 3d 785, affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.     Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Stevens, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, and Alito, JJ., joined, in which Scalia, J., joined except for n. 3, and in which Thomas, J., joined except for Part III-C. Scalia, J., and Thomas, J., filed opinions concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.     Congress enacted the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (BAPCPA or Act) to correct perceived abuses of the bankruptcy system. Among the reform measures the Act implemented are a number of provisions that regulate the conduct of "debt relief agenc[ies]"--i.e., professionals who provide bankruptcy assistance to consumer debtors. See 11 U. S. C. §§101(3), (12A). These consolidated cases present the threshold question whether attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services. Because we agree with the Court of Appeals that they are, we must also consider whether the Act's provisions governing debt relief agencies' advice to clients, §526(a)(4), and requiring them to make certain disclosures in their advertisements, §§528(a) and (b)(2), violate the First Amendment rights of attorneys. Concluding that the Court of Appeals construed §526(a)(4) too expansively, we reverse its judgment that the provision is unconstitutionally overbroad. Like the Court of Appeals, we uphold §528's disclosure requirements as applied in these consolidated cases.I     In order to improve bankruptcy law and practice, Congress enacted through the BAPCPA a number of provisions directed at the conduct of bankruptcy professionals. Some of these measures apply to the broad class of bankruptcy professionals termed "debt relief agenc[ies]." That category includes, with limited exceptions, "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person in return for ... payment ... , or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." §101(12A).1 "Bankruptcy assistance" refers to goods or services "provided to an assisted person with the express or implied purpose of providing information, advice, counsel, document preparation, or filing, or attendance at a creditors' meeting or appearing in a case or proceeding on behalf of another or providing legal representation with respect to a case or proceeding" in bankruptcy. §101(4A). An "assisted person" is someone with limited nonexempt property whose debts consist primarily of consumer debts. §101(3). The BAPCPA subjects debt relief agencies to a number of restrictions and requirements, as set forth in §§526, 527, and 528. As relevant here, §526(a) establishes several rules of professional conduct for persons qualifying as debt relief agencies. Among them, §526(a)(4) states that a debt relief agency shall not "advise an assisted person ... to incur more debt in contemplation of such person filing a case under this title or to pay an attorney or bankruptcy petition preparer fee or charge for services performed as part of preparing for or representing a debtor in a case under this title."     Section 528 requires qualifying professionals to include certain disclosures in their advertisements. Subsection (a) provides that debt relief agencies must "clearly and conspicuously disclose in any advertisement of bankruptcy assistance services or of the benefits of bankruptcy directed to the general public ... that the services or benefits are with respect to bankruptcy relief under this title." §528(a)(3). It also requires them to include the following, "or a substantially similar statement": "We are a debt relief agency. We help people file for bankruptcy relief under the Bankruptcy Code." §528(a)(4). Subsection (b) requires essentially the same disclosures in advertisements "indicating that the debt relief agency provides assistance with respect to credit defaults, mortgage foreclosures, eviction proceedings, excessive debt, debt collection pressure, or inability to pay any consumer debt." §528(b)(2). Debt relief agencies advertising such services must disclose "that the assistance may involve bankruptcy relief," §528(b)(2)(A), and must identify themselves as "debt relief agenc[ies]" as required by §528(a)(4), see §528(b)(2)(B).II     The plaintiffs in this litigation--the law firm Milavetz, Gallop & Milavetz, P. A.; the firm's president, Robert J. Milavetz; a bankruptcy attorney at the firm, Barbara Nilva Nevin; and two of the firm's clients (collectively Milavetz)--filed a preenforcement suit in Federal District Court seeking declaratory relief with respect to the Act's debt-relief-agency provisions. Milavetz asked the court to hold that it is not bound by these provisions and thus may freely advise clients to incur additional debt and need not identify itself as a debt relief agency in its advertisements.     Milavetz first argued that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]" as that term is used in the BAPCPA. In the alternative, Milavetz sought a judgment that §§526(a)(4) and 528(a)(4) and (b)(2) are unconstitutional as applied to attorneys. The District Court agreed with Milavetz that the term "debt relief agency" does not include attorneys, App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 08-1119, p. A-15, but only after finding that §§526 and 528--provisions expressly applicable only to debt relief agencies--are unconstitutional as applied to this class of professionals.     The Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part. 541 F. 3d 785 (2008). Relying on the Act's plain language, the court unanimously rejected the District Court's conclusion that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]" within the meaning of the Act. The Court of Appeals also parted ways with the District Court concerning the constitutionality of §528. Concluding that the disclosures are intended to prevent consumer deception and are "reasonably related" to that interest, the court upheld the application of §528's disclosure requirements to attorneys. Id., at 796-797 (citing Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626, 651 (1985)).     A majority of the Eighth Circuit panel, however, agreed with the District Court that §526(a)(4) is invalid. Determining that §526(a)(4) "broadly prohibits a debt relief agency from advising an assisted person ... to incur any additional debt when the assisted person is contemplating bankruptcy," even when that advice constitutes prudent prebankruptcy planning not intended to abuse the bankruptcy laws, 541 F. 3d, at 793, the majority held that §526(a)(4) could not withstand either strict or intermediate scrutiny. In dissent, Judge Colloton argued that §526(a)(4) should be read narrowly to prevent only advice to abuse the bankruptcy system, noting that this construction would avoid most constitutional difficulties. See id., at 799 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part).     In light of a conflict among the Courts of Appeals,2 we granted certiorari to resolve the question of §526(a)(4)'s scope. 556 U. S. ___ (2009). We also agreed to consider the threshold question whether attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are "debt relief agenc[ies]" within the meaning of §101(12A) and the related question whether §528's disclosure requirements are constitutional.IIIA     We first consider whether the term "debt relief agency" includes attorneys. If it does not, we need not reach the other questions presented, as §§526 and 528 govern only the conduct of debt relief agencies, and Milavetz challenges the validity of those provisions based on their application to attorneys. The Government contends that "debt relief agency" plainly includes attorneys, while Milavetz urges that it does not. We conclude that the Government has the better view.     As already noted, a debt relief agency is "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person" in return for payment. §101(12A). By definition, "bankruptcy assistance" includes several services commonly performed by attorneys. Indeed, some forms of bankruptcy assistance, including the "provi[sion of] legal representation with respect to a case or proceeding," §101(4A), may be provided only by attorneys. See §110(e)(2) (prohibiting bankruptcy petition preparers from providing legal advice). Moreover, in enumerating specific exceptions to the definition of debt relief agency, Congress gave no indication that it intended to exclude attorneys. See §§101(12A)(A)-(E). Thus, as the Government contends, the statutory text clearly indicates that attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services to assisted persons.3     In advocating a narrower understanding of that term, Milavetz relies heavily on the fact that §101(12A) does not expressly include attorneys. That omission stands in contrast, it argues, to the provision's explicit inclusion of "bankruptcy petition preparer[s]"--a category of professionals that excludes attorneys and their staff, see §110(a)(1). But Milavetz does not contend, nor could it credibly, that only professionals expressly included in the definition are debt relief agencies. On that reading, no professional other than a bankruptcy petition preparer would qualify--an implausible reading given that the statute defines "debt relief agency" as "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person ... or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." §101(12A) (emphasis added). The provision's silence regarding attorneys thus avails Milavetz little. Cf. Heintz v. Jenkins, 514 U. S. 291, 294 (1995) (holding that "debt collector" as used in the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, 15 U. S. C. §1692a(6), includes attorneys notwithstanding the definition's lack of an express reference to lawyers or litigation).     Milavetz's other arguments for excluding attorneys similarly fail to persuade us to disregard the statute's plain language. Milavetz contends that 11 U. S. C. §526(d)(2)'s instruction that §§526, 527, and 528 should not "be deemed to limit or curtail" States' authority to "determine and enforce qualifications for the practice of law" counsels against reading "debt relief agency" to include attorneys, as the surest way to protect the States' role in regulating the legal profession is to make the BAPCPA's professional conduct rules inapplicable to lawyers. We find that §526(d)(2) supports the opposite conclusion, as Congress would have had no reason to enact that provision if the debt-relief-agency provisions did not apply to attorneys. Milavetz's broader claim that reading §101(12A) to include attorneys impermissibly trenches on an area of traditional state regulation also lacks merit. Congress and the bankruptcy courts have long overseen aspects of attorney conduct in this area of substantial federal concern. See, e.g., Conrad, Rubin & Lesser v. Pender, 289 U. S. 472, 477-479 (1933) (finding broad authorization in former §96(d) (1934 ed.) (repealed 1978) for courts to examine the reasonableness of a debtor's prepetition attorney's fees).     Milavetz next argues that §101(12A)'s exception for any "officer, director, employee, or agent of a person who provides" bankruptcy assistance is revealing for its failure to include "partners." §101(12A)(A). In light of that omission, it contends, treating attorneys as debt relief agencies will obligate entire law firms to comply with §§526, 527, and 528 based on the conduct of a single partner, while the agents and employees of debt relief agencies not typically organized as partnerships are shielded from those requirements. Given that the partnership structure is not unique to law firms, however, it is unclear why the exclusion would be revealing of Congress' intent only with respect to attorneys. In any event, partnerships are themselves "person[s]" under the BAPCPA, see §101(41), and can qualify as "debt relief agenc[ies]" when they meet the criteria set forth in §101(12A). Moreover, a partnership's employees and agents are exempted from §101(12A) in the same way as the employees and agents of other organizations. To the extent that partners may be subject to the debt-relief-agency provisions by association, that result is consistent with the joint responsibilities that typically flow from the partnership structure, cf. Strang v. Bradner, 114 U. S. 555, 561 (1885). Accordingly, we decline to attribute the significance Milavetz suggests to §101(12A)(A)'s failure to include partners among the exempted actors.4     All else failing, Milavetz urges that the canon of constitutional avoidance requires us to read "debt relief agency" to exclude attorneys in order to forestall serious doubts as to the validity of §§526 and 528. The avoidance canon, however, "is a tool for choosing between competing plausible interpretations of a statutory text." Clark v. Martinez, 543 U. S. 371, 381 (2005). In applying that tool, we will consider only those constructions of a statute that are " 'fairly possible.' " United States v. Security Industrial Bank, 459 U. S. 70, 78 (1982). For the reasons already discussed, the text and statutory context of §101(12A) foreclose a reading of "debt relief agency" that excludes attorneys. Accordingly, we hold that attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are debt relief agencies within the meaning of the BAPCPA.B     Having concluded that attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services, we next address the scope and validity of §526(a)(4). Characterizing the statute as a broad, content-based restriction on attorney-client communications that is not adequately tailored to constrain only speech the Government has a substantial interest in restricting, the Eighth Circuit found the rule substantially overbroad. 541 F. 3d, at 793-794, and n. 10. For the reasons that follow, we reject that conclusion.     Section 526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency from "advis[ing] an assisted person" either "to incur more debt in contemplation of" filing for bankruptcy "or to pay an attorney or bankruptcy petition preparer fee or charge for services" performed in preparation for filing. Only the first of these prohibitions is at issue. In debating the correctness of the Court of Appeals' decision, the parties first dispute the provision's scope. The Court of Appeals concluded that "§526(a)(4) broadly prohibits a debt relief agency from advising an assisted person ... to incur any additional debt when the assisted person is contemplating bankruptcy." Id., at 793. Under that reading, an attorney is prohibited from providing all manner of "beneficial advice--even if the advice could help the assisted person avoid filing for bankruptcy altogether." Ibid.     Agreeing with the Court of Appeals, Milavetz contends that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency from advising a client to incur any new debt while considering whether to file for bankruptcy. Construing the provision more broadly still, Milavetz contends that §526(a)(4) forbids not only affirmative advice but also any discussion of the advantages, disadvantages, or legality of incurring more debt. Like the panel majority's, Milavetz's reading rests primarily on its view that the ordinary meaning of the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy encompasses any advice given to a debtor with the awareness that he might soon file for bankruptcy, even if the advice seeks to obviate the need to file. Milavetz also maintains that if §526(a)(4) were construed more narrowly, as urged by the Government and the dissent below, it would be so vague as to inevitably chill some protected speech.     The Government continues to advocate a narrower construction of the statute, urging that Milavetz's reading is untenable and that its vagueness concerns are misplaced. The Government contends that §526(a)(4)'s restriction on advice to incur more debt "in contemplation of" bankruptcy is most naturally read to forbid only advice to undertake actions to abuse the bankruptcy system. Focusing first on the provision's text, the Government points to sources indicating that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy has long been, and continues to be, associated with abusive conduct. For instance, Black's Law Dictionary 336 (8th ed. 2004) (hereinafter Black's) defines "contemplation of bankruptcy" as "[t]he thought of declaring bankruptcy because of the inability to continue current financial operations, often coupled with action designed to thwart the distribution of assets in a bankruptcy proceeding." Use of the phrase by Members of Congress illustrates that traditional coupling. See, e.g., S. Rep. No. 98-65, p. 9 (1983) (discussing the practice of " 'loading up' [on debt] in contemplation of bankruptcy"); Report of the Commission on the Bankruptcy Laws of the United States, H. R. Doc. No. 93-137, pt. I, p. 11 (1973) ("[T]he most serious abuse of consumer bankruptcy is the number of instances in which individuals have purchased a sizable quantity of goods and services on credit on the eve of bankruptcy in contemplation of obtaining a discharge"). The Government also points to early American and English judicial decisions to corroborate its contention that "in contemplation of" bankruptcy signifies abusive conduct. See, e.g., In re Pearce, 19 F. Cas. 50, 53 (No. 10,873) (D. Vt. 1843); Morgan v. Brundrett, 5 B. Ad. 288, 296-297, 110 Eng. Rep. 798, 801 (K. B. 1833) (Parke, J.).     To bolster its textual claim, the Government relies on §526(a)(4)'s immediate context. According to the Government, the other three subsections of §526(a) are designed to protect debtors from abusive practices by debt relief agencies: §526(a)(1) requires debt relief agencies to perform all promised services; §526(a)(2) prohibits them from making or advising debtors to make false or misleading statements in bankruptcy; and §526(a)(3) prohibits them from misleading debtors regarding the costs or benefits of bankruptcy. When §526(a)(4) is read in context of these debtor-protective provisions, the Government argues, construing it to prevent debt relief agencies from giving advice that is beneficial to both debtors and their creditors seems particularly nonsensical.     Finally, the Government contends that the BAPCPA's remedies for violations of §526(a)(4) similarly corroborate its narrow reading. Section 526(c) provides remedies for a debt relief agency's violation of §526, §527, or §528. Among the actions authorized, a debtor may sue the attorney for remittal of fees, actual damages, and reasonable attorney's fees and costs; a state attorney general may sue for a resident's actual damages; and a court finding intentional abuse may impose an appropriate civil penalty. §526(c). The Government also relies on the Fifth Circuit's decision in Hersh v. United States ex rel. Mukasey, 553 F. 3d 743 (2008), and Judge Colloton's dissent below for the observation that "Congress's emphasis on actual damages for violations of section 526(a)(4) strongly suggests that Congress viewed that section as aimed at advice to debtors which if followed would have a significant risk of harming the debtor." Id., at 760; see 541 F. 3d, at 800 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part). By contrast, "legal and appropriate advice that would be protected by the First Amendment, yet prohibited by a broad reading of §526(a)(4), should cause no damage at all." Ibid.; see Hersh, 541 F. 3d, at 760.     Milavetz contends that the Government's sources actually undermine its claim that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy necessarily refers to abusive conduct. Specifically, Milavetz argues that these authorities illustrate that "in contemplation of" bankruptcy is a neutral phrase that only implies abusive conduct when attached to an additional, proscriptive term. As Black's states, the phrase is "often coupled with action designed to thwart the distribution of assets" in bankruptcy, Black's 336 (emphasis added), but it carries no independent connotation of abuse. In support of that conclusion, Milavetz relies on our decision in Pender, 289 U. S. 472, contending that we construed "in contemplation of" bankruptcy in that case to describe "conduct with a view to a probable bankruptcy filing and nothing more." Brief for Milavetz 61.     After reviewing these competing claims, we are persuaded that a narrower reading of §526(a)(4) is sounder, although we do not adopt precisely the view the Government advocates. The Government's sources show that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy has so commonly been associated with abusive conduct that it may readily be understood to prefigure abuse. As used in §526(a)(4), however, we think the phrase refers to a specific type of misconduct designed to manipulate the protections of the bankruptcy system. In light of our decision in Pender, and in context of other sections of the Code, we conclude that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising a debtor to incur more debt because the debtor is filing for bankruptcy, rather than for a valid purpose.     Pender addressed the meaning of former §96(d), which authorized reexamination of a debtor's payment of attorney's fees "in contemplation of the filing of a petition." Recognizing " 'the temptation of a failing debtor to deal too liberally with his property in enabling counsel to protect him,' " 289 U. S., at 478 (quoting In re Wood & Henderson, 210 U. S. 246, 253 (1908)), we read "in contemplation of ... filing" in that context to require that the portended bankruptcy have "induce[d]" the transfer at issue, 289 U. S., at 477, understanding inducement to engender suspicion of abuse. In so construing the statute, we identified the "controlling question" as "whether the thought of bankruptcy was the impelling cause of the transaction." Ibid. Given the substantial similarities between §§96(d) and 526(a)(4), we think the controlling question under the latter provision is likewise whether the impelling reason for "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt" was the prospect of filing for bankruptcy.     To be sure, there are relevant differences between the provision at issue in Pender and the one now under review. Most notably, the inquiry in Pender was as to payments made on the eve of bankruptcy, whereas §526(a)(4) regards advice to incur additional debts. Consistent with that difference, under §96(d) a finding that a payment was made "in contemplation of" filing resolved only a threshold inquiry triggering further review of the reasonableness of the payment; the finding thus supported an inference of abuse but did not conclusively establish it. By contrast, advice to incur more debt because of bankruptcy, as prohibited by §526(a)(4), will generally consist of advice to "load up" on debt with the expectation of obtaining its discharge--i.e., conduct that is abusive per se.     The statutory context supports the conclusion that §526(a)(4)'s prohibition primarily targets this type of abuse. Code provisions predating the BAPCPA already sought to prevent the practice of loading up on debt prior to filing. Section 523(a)(2), for instance, addressed the attendant risk of manipulation by preventing the discharge of debts obtained by false pretenses and making debts for purchases of luxury goods or services presumptively nondischargeable. See §§523(a)(2)(A) and (C) (2000 ed.). The BAPCPA increased the risk of such abuse, however, by providing a new mechanism for determining a debtor's ability to repay. Pursuant to the "means tes[t]," §707(b)(2)(D) (2006 ed.), a debtor's petition for Chapter 7 relief is presumed abusive (and may therefore be dismissed or converted to a structured repayment plan under Chapter 13) if the debtor's current monthly income exceeds his statutorily allowed expenses, including payments for secured debt, by more than a prescribed amount. See §§707(b)(2)(A)(i)-(iv). The test promotes debtor accountability but also enhances incentives to incur additional debt prior to filing, as payments on secured debts offset a debtor's monthly income under the formula. Other amendments effected by the BAPCPA reflect a concern with this practice. For instance, Congress amended §523(a)(2) to expand the exceptions to discharge by lowering the threshold amount of new debt a debtor must assume to trigger the presumption of abuse under §523(a)(2)(C), and it extended the relevant prefiling window. See §310, 119 Stat. 84. In context, §526(a)(4) is best understood to provide an additional safeguard against the practice of loading up on debt prior to filing.     The Government's contextual arguments provide additional support for the view that §526(a)(4) was meant to prevent this type of conduct. The companion rules of professional conduct in §§526(a)(1)-(3) and the remedies for their violation in §526(c) indicate that Congress was concerned with actions that threaten to harm debtors or creditors. Unlike the reasonable financial advice the Eighth Circuit's broad reading would proscribe, advice to incur more debt because of bankruptcy presents a substantial risk of injury to both debtors and creditors. See Hersh, 553 F. 3d, at 760-761. Specifically, the incurrence of such debt stands to harm a debtor if his prepetition conduct leads a court to hold his debts nondischargable, see §523(a)(2), convert his case to another chapter, or dismiss it altogether, see §707(b), thereby defeating his effort to obtain bankruptcy relief. If a debt, although manipulatively incurred, is not timely identified as abusive and therefore is discharged, creditors will suffer harm as a result of the discharge and the consequent dilution of the bankruptcy estate. By contrast, the prudent advice that the Eighth Circuit's view of the statute forbids would likely benefit both debtors and creditors and at the very least should cause no harm. See id., at 760; 541 F. 3d, at 800 (Colloton, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). For all of these reasons, we conclude that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising an assisted person to incur more debt when the impelling reason for the advice is the anticipation of bankruptcy.     That "[n]o other solution yields as sensible a" result further persuades us of the correctness of this narrow reading. United States v. Granderson, 511 U. S. 39, 55 (1994). It would make scant sense to prevent attorneys and other debt relief agencies from advising individuals thinking of filing for bankruptcy about options that would be beneficial to both those individuals and their creditors. That construction serves none of the purposes of the Bankruptcy Code or the amendments enacted through the BAPCPA. Milavetz itself acknowledges that its expansive view of §526(a)(4) would produce absurd results; that is one of its bases for arguing that "debt relief agency" should be construed to exclude attorneys. Because the language and context of §526(a)(4) evidence a more targeted purpose, we can avoid the absurdity of which Milavetz complains without reaching the result it advocates.     For the same reason, we reject Milavetz's suggestion that §526(a)(4) broadly prohibits debt relief agencies from discussing covered subjects instead of merely proscribing affirmative advice to undertake a particular action. Section 526(a)(4) by its terms prevents debt relief agencies only from "advis[ing]" assisted persons "to incur" more debt. Covered professionals remain free to "tal[k] fully and candidly about the incurrence of debt in contemplation of filing a bankruptcy case." Brief for Milavetz 73. Section 526(a)(4) requires professionals only to avoid instructing or encouraging assisted persons to take on more debt in that circumstance. Cf. ABA Model Rule of Professional Conduct 1.2(d) (2009) ("A lawyer shall not counsel a client to engage, or assist a client, in conduct that the lawyer knows is criminal or fraudulent, but a lawyer may discuss the legal consequences of any proposed course of conduct with a client and may counsel or assist a client to make a good faith effort to determine the validity, scope, meaning or application of the law"). Even if the statute were not clear in this regard, we would reach the same conclusion about its scope because the inhibition of frank discussion serves no conceivable purpose within the statutory scheme. Cf. Johnson v. United States, 529 U. S. 694, 706, n. 9 (2000).5     Finally, we reject Milavetz's contention that, narrowly construed, §526(a)(4) is impermissibly vague. Milavetz urges that the concept of abusive prefiling conduct is too indefinite to withstand constitutional scrutiny and that uncertainty regarding the scope of the prohibition will chill protected speech. We disagree.     Under our reading of the statute, of course, the prohibited advice is not defined in terms of abusive prefiling conduct but rather the incurrence of additional debt when the impelling reason is the anticipation of bankruptcy. Even if the test depended upon the notion of abuse, however, Milavetz's claim would be fatally undermined by other provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, to which that concept is no stranger. As discussed above, the Code authorizes a bankruptcy court to decline to discharge fraudulent debts, see §523(a)(2), or to dismiss a case or convert it to a case under another chapter if it finds that granting relief would constitute abuse, see §707(b)(1). Attorneys and other professionals who give debtors bankruptcy advice must know of these provisions and their consequences for a debtor who in bad faith incurs additional debt prior to filing. Indeed, §707(b)(4)(C) states that an attorney's signature on bankruptcy filings "shall constitute a certification that the attorney has" determined that the filing "does not constitute an abuse under [§707(b)(1)]." Against this backdrop, it is hard to see how a rule that narrowly prohibits an attorney from affirmatively advising a client to commit this type of abusive prefiling conduct could chill attorney speech or inhibit the attorney-client relationship. Our construction of §526(a)(4) to prevent only advice principally motivated by the prospect of bankruptcy further ensures that professionals cannot unknowingly run afoul of its proscription.6 Because the scope of the prohibition is adequately defined, both on its own terms and by reference to the Code's other provisions, we reject Milavetz's vagueness claim.     As the foregoing shows, the language of the statute, together with other evidence of its purpose, makes this narrow reading of §526(a)(4) not merely a plausible interpretation but the more natural one. Accordingly, we reject the Eighth Circuit's conclusion and hold that a debt relief agency violates §526(a)(4) only when the impetus of the advice to incur more debt is the expectation of filing for bankruptcy and obtaining the attendant relief. Because our reading of the statute supplies a sufficient ground for reversing the Court of Appeals' decision, and because Milavetz challenges the constitutionality of the statute, as narrowed, only on vagueness grounds, we need not further consider whether the statute so construed withstands First Amendment scrutiny.C     Finally, we address the validity of §528's challenged disclosure requirements. Our first task in resolving this question is to determine the contours of Milavetz's claim. Although the nature of its challenge is not entirely clear from the briefing or decisions below, counsel for Milavetz insisted at oral argument that this is "not a facial challenge; it's an as-applied challenge." Tr. of Oral Arg. 26. We will approach the question consistent with Milavetz's characterization.7     We next consider the standard of scrutiny applicable to §528's disclosure requirements. The parties agree, as do we, that the challenged provisions regulate only commercial speech. Milavetz contends that our decision in Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y., 447 U. S. 557 (1980), supplies the proper standard for reviewing these requirements. The Court in that case held that restrictions on nonmisleading commercial speech regarding lawful activity must withstand intermediate scrutiny--that is, they must "directly advanc[e]" a substantial governmental interest and be "n[o] more extensive than is necessary to serve that interest." Id., at 566. Contesting Milavetz's premise, the Government maintains that §528 is directed at misleading commercial speech. For that reason, and because the challenged provisions impose a disclosure requirement rather than an affirmative limitation on speech, the Government contends that the less exacting scrutiny described in Zauderer governs our review. We agree.     Zauderer addressed the validity of a rule of professional conduct that required attorneys who advertised contingency-fee services to disclose in their advertisements that a losing client might still be responsible for certain litigation fees and costs. Noting that First Amendment protection for commercial speech is justified in large part by the information's value to consumers, the Court concluded that an attorney's constitutionally protected interest in not providing the required factual information is "minimal." 471 U. S., at 651. Unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements offend the First Amendment by chilling protected speech, but "an advertiser's rights are adequately protected as long as disclosure requirements are reasonably related to the State's interest in preventing deception of consumers." Ibid.     The challenged provisions of §528 share the essential features of the rule at issue in Zauderer. As in that case, §528's required disclosures are intended to combat the problem of inherently misleading commercial advertisements--specifically, the promise of debt relief without any reference to the possibility of filing for bankruptcy, which has inherent costs. Additionally, the disclosures entail only an accurate statement identifying the advertiser's legal status and the character of the assistance provided, and they do not prevent debt relief agencies like Milavetz from conveying any additional information.     The same characteristics of §528 that make it analogous to the rule in Zauderer serve to distinguish it from those at issue in In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191 (1982), to which the Court applied the intermediate scrutiny of Central Hudson. The ethical rules addressed in R. M. J. prohibited attorneys from advertising their practice areas in terms other than those prescribed by the State Supreme Court and from announcing the courts in which they were admitted to practice. See 455 U. S., at 197-198. Finding that the restricted statements were not inherently misleading and that the State had failed to show that the appellant's advertisements were themselves likely to mislead consumers, see id., at 205, the Court applied Central Hudson's intermediate scrutiny and invalidated the restrictions as insufficiently tailored to any substantial state interest, 455 U. S., at 205-206. In so holding, the Court emphasized that States retain authority to regulate inherently misleading advertisements, particularly through disclosure requirements, and it noted that advertisements for professional services pose a special risk of deception. See id., at 203, 207.     Milavetz makes much of the fact that the Government in these consolidated cases has adduced no evidence that its advertisements are misleading. Zauderer forecloses that argument: "When the possibility of deception is as self-evident as it is in this case, we need not require the State to 'conduct a survey of the ... public before it [may] determine that the [advertisement] had a tendency to mislead.' " 471 U. S., at 652-653 (quoting FTC v. Colgate-Palmolive Co., 380 U. S. 374, 391-392 (1965)). Evidence in the congressional record demonstrating a pattern of advertisements that hold out the promise of debt relief without alerting consumers to its potential cost, see 1998 Hearings, pt. III, at 86, 90-94, is adequate to establish that the likelihood of deception in this case "is hardly a speculative one," 471 U. S., at 652.     Milavetz alternatively argues that the term "debt relief agency" is confusing and misleading and that requiring its inclusion in advertisements cannot be "reasonably related" to the Government's interest in preventing consumer deception, as Zauderer requires. Id., at 651. This contention amounts to little more than a preference on Milavetz's part for referring to itself as something other than a "debt relief agency"--e.g., an attorney or a law firm. For several reasons, we conclude that this preference lacks any constitutional basis. First, Milavetz offers no evidence to support its claim that the label is confusing. Because §528 by its terms applies only to debt relief agencies, the disclosures are necessarily accurate to that extent: Only debt relief agencies must identify themselves as such in their advertisements. This statement provides interested observers with pertinent information about the advertiser's services and client obligations.     Other information that Milavetz must or may include in its advertisements for bankruptcy-assistance services provides additional assurance that consumers will not misunderstand the term. The required statement that the advertiser " 'help[s] people file for bankruptcy relief' " gives meaningful context to the term "debt relief agency." And Milavetz may further identify itself as a law firm or attorney. Section 528 also gives Milavetz flexibility to tailor the disclosures to its individual circumstances, as long as the resulting statements are "substantially similar" to the statutory examples. §§528(a)(4) and (b)(2)(B).     Finally, we reject Milavetz's argument that §528 is not reasonably related to any governmental interest because it applies equally to attorneys who represent creditors, as Milavetz sometimes does. The required disclosures, Milavetz contends, would be counterfactual and misleading in that context. This claim is premised on an untenable reading of the statute. We think it evident from the definition of "assisted person"--which is stated in terms of the person's debts, see §101(3)--and from the text and structure of the debt-relief-agency provisions in §§526, 527, and 528 that those provisions, including §528's disclosure requirements, govern only professionals who offer bankruptcy-related services to consumer debtors. Section 528 is itself expressly concerned with advertisements pertaining to "bankruptcy assistance services," "the benefits of bankruptcy," "excessive debt, debt collection pressure, or inability to pay any consumer debt," §§528(a)(3) and (b)(2). Moreover, like the other debt-relief-agency provisions, that section is codified in a subchapter of the Bankruptcy Code entitled "debtor's duties and benefits." 11 U. S. C., ch. 5, subch. II. In context, reading §528 to govern advertisements aimed at creditors would be as anomalous as the result of which Milavetz complains. Once again, we decline Milavetz's invitation to adopt a view of the statute that is contrary to its plain meaning and would produce an absurd result.     Because §528's requirements that Milavetz identify itself as a debt relief agency and include certain information about its bankruptcy-assistance and related services are "reasonably related to the [Government's] interest in preventing deception of consumers," Zauderer, 471 U. S., at 651, we uphold those provisions as applied to Milavetz.IV     For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit is affirmed as to §§101(12A) and 528 and reversed as to §526(a)(4), and the cases are remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Scalia, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.     I join the opinion of the Court, except for footnote 3, which notes that the legislative history supports what the statute unambiguously says. The Court first notes that statements in the Report of the House Committee on the Judiciary "indicate concern with abusive practices undertaken by attorneys." Ante, at 6, n. 3. Perhaps, but only the concern of the author of the Report. Such statements tell us nothing about what the statute means, since (1) we do not know that the members of the Committee read the Report, (2) it is almost certain that they did not vote on the Report (that is not the practice), and (3) even if they did read and vote on it, they were not, after all, those who made this law. The statute before us is a law because its text was approved by a majority vote of the House and the Senate, and was signed by the President. Even indulging the extravagant assumption that Members of the House other than members of its Committee on the Judiciary read the Report (and the further extravagant assumption that they agreed with it), the Members of the Senate could not possibly have read it, since it did not exist when the Senate passed the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005. And the President surely had more important things to do.     The footnote's other source of legislative history is truly mystifying. For the proposition that "the legislative record elsewhere documents misconduct by attorneys" which was presumably the concern of Congress, the Court cites a reproduction of a tasteless advertisement that was (1) an attachment to the written statement of a witness, (2) in a hearing held seven years prior to this statute's passage, (3) before a subcommittee of the House considering a different consumer bankruptcy reform bill that never passed.* "Elsewhere" indeed.     The Court acknowledges that nothing can be gained by this superfluous citation (it admits the footnote is "unnecessary in light of the statute's unambiguous language," ante, at 6, n. 3). But much can be lost. Our cases have said that legislative history is irrelevant when the statutory text is clear. See, e.g., United States v. Gonzales, 520 U. S. 1, 6 (1997); Connecticut Nat. Bank v. Germain, 503 U. S. 249, 254 (1992). The footnote advises conscientious attorneys that this is not true, and that they must spend time and their clients' treasure combing the annals of legislative history in all cases: To buttress their case where the statutory text is unambiguously in their favor; and to attack an unambiguous text that is against them. If legislative history is relevant to confirm that a clear text means what it says, it is presumably relevant to show that an apparently clear text does not mean what it seems to say. Even for those who believe in the legal fiction that committee reports reflect congressional intent, footnote 3 is a bridge too far.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Thomas, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.     I concur in the judgment and join all but Part III-C of the Court's opinion. I agree with the Court that 11 U. S. C. §528's advertising disclosure requirements survive First Amendment scrutiny on the record before us. I write separately because different reasons lead me to that conclusion.     I have never been persuaded that there is any basis in the First Amendment for the relaxed scrutiny this Court applies to laws that suppress nonmisleading commercial speech. See 44 Liquormart, Inc. v. Rhode Island, 517 U. S. 484, 522-523 (1996) (opinion concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (discussing Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y., 447 U. S. 557 (1980)). In this case, the Court applies a still lower standard of scrutiny to review a law that compels the disclosure of commercial speech--i.e., the rule articulated in Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626 (1985), that laws that require the disclosure of factual information in commercial advertising may be upheld so long as they are "reasonably related" to the government's interest in preventing consumer deception, id., at 651.     I am skeptical of the premise on which Zauderer rests--that, in the commercial-speech context, "the First Amendment interests implicated by disclosure requirements are substantially weaker than those at stake when speech is actually suppressed," id., at 652, n. 14; see id., at 650 (citing "material differences between disclosure requirements and outright prohibitions on speech"). We have refused in other contexts to attach any "constitutional significance" to the difference between regulations that compel protected speech and regulations that restrict it. See, e.g., Riley v. National Federation of Blind of N. C., Inc., 487 U. S. 781, 796-797 (1988). I see no reason why that difference should acquire constitutional significance merely because the regulations at issue involve commercial speech. See Glickman v. Wileman Brothers & Elliott, Inc., 521 U. S. 457, 480-481 (1997) (Souter, J., dissenting) (arguing that "commercial speech is ... subject to [this] First Amendment principle: that compelling cognizable speech officially is just as suspect as suppressing it, and is typically subject to the same level of scrutiny"); id., at 504 (Thomas, J., dissenting); cf. United States v. United Foods, Inc., 533 U. S. 405, 419 (2001) (Thomas, J., concurring) (stating that regulations that compel funding for commercial advertising "must be subjected to the most stringent First Amendment scrutiny").     Accordingly, I would be willing to reexamine Zauderer and its progeny in an appropriate case to determine whether these precedents provide sufficient First Amendment protection against government-mandated disclosures.1 Because no party asks us to do so here, however, I agree with the Court that the Zauderer standard governs our review of the challenge to §528 brought by the Milavetz law firm and the other plaintiffs in this action (hereinafter Milavetz).     Yet even under Zauderer, we "have not presumptively endorsed" laws requiring the use of "government-scripted disclaimers" in commercial advertising. See Borgner v. Florida Bd. of Dentistry, 537 U. S. 1080, 1082 (2002) (Thomas, J., dissenting from denial of certiorari). Zauderer upheld the imposition of sanctions against an attorney under a rule of professional conduct that required advertisements for contingency-fee services to disclose that losing clients might be responsible for litigation fees and costs. See 471 U. S., at 650-653. Importantly, however, Zauderer's advertisement was found to be misleading on its face, and the regulation in that case did not mandate the specific form or text of the disclosure. Ibid. Thus, Zauderer does not stand for the proposition that the government can constitutionally compel the use of a scripted disclaimer in any circumstance in which its interest in preventing consumer deception might plausibly be at stake. In other words, a bare assertion by the government that a disclosure requirement is "intended" to prevent consumer deception, standing alone, is not sufficient to uphold the requirement as applied to all speech that falls within its sweep. See ante, at 20.     Instead, our precedents make clear that regulations aimed at false or misleading advertisements are permissible only where "the particular advertising is inherently likely to deceive or where the record indicates that a particular form or method of advertising has in fact been deceptive." In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191, 202 (1982) (emphasis added); see Zauderer, supra, at 651 ("recogniz[ing] that unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements might offend the First Amendment"). Therefore, a disclosure requirement passes constitutional muster only to the extent that it is aimed at advertisements that, by their nature, possess these traits. See R. M. J., supra, at 202; Ibanez v. Florida Dept. of Business and Professional Regulation, Bd. of Accountancy, 512 U. S. 136, 143, 146-147 (1994).     I do not read the Court's opinion to hold otherwise. See ante, at 20. Accordingly, and with that understanding, I turn to the question whether Milavetz's challenge to §528's disclosure requirements survives Zauderer scrutiny on the record before us.     As the Court notes, the posture of Milavetz's challenge inhibits our review of its First Amendment claim. See ante, at 19, n. 7. Milavetz challenged §528's constitutionality before the statute had ever been enforced against any of the firm's advertisements. Although Milavetz purports to challenge §528 only " 'as-applied' " to its own advertising, see ante, at 19, it did not introduce any evidence or exhibits to substantiate its claim. Thus, no court has seen a sampling of Milavetz's advertisements or even a declaration describing their contents and the media through which Milavetz seeks to transmit them. As a consequence, Milavetz's nominal "as applied" challenge appears strikingly similar to a facial challenge.     We generally disapprove of such challenges because they "often rest on speculation" and require courts to engage in " 'premature interpretation of statutes on the basis of factually barebones records.' " Washington State Grange v. Washington State Republican Party, 552 U. S. 442, 450 (2008) (quoting Sabri v. United States, 541 U. S. 600, 609 (2004)). Milavetz's claim invites the same problems. Milavetz alleges that §528's disclosure requirements are unconstitutional as applied to its advertisements because its advertisements are not misleading and because the disclaimer required by §528 will create, rather than reduce, confusion for Milavetz's potential clients. That may well be true. But because no record evidence of Milavetz's advertisements exists to guide our review, we can only speculate about the ways in which the statute might be applied to Milavetz's speech.     When forced to determine the constitutionality of a statute based solely on such conjecture, we will uphold the law if there is any "conceivabl[e]" manner in which it can be enforced consistent with the First Amendment. Washington State Grange, supra, at 456. In this case, both parties agree that §528's disclosure requirements cover, at a minimum, deceptive advertisements that promise to " 'wipe out' " debts without mentioning bankruptcy as the means of accomplishing this goal.2 Brief for Milavetz 82, 86; Brief for United States 60-62. As a result, there is at least one set of facts on which the statute could be constitutionally applied. Thus, I agree with the Court that Milavetz's challenge to §528 must fail.FOOTNOTESSection 340B of the Public Health Services Act imposes ceilings on prices drug manufacturers may charge for medications sold to specified health care facilities (340B or covered entities), dominantly, local providers of medical care for the poor. The §340B ceiling-price program (340B Program) is superintended by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), part of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). It is tied to the earlier-enacted, much larger Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, under which manufacturers gain Medicaid coverage for their drugs. To qualify for participation in this program, a manufacturer must enter into a standardized agreement with HHS undertaking to provide rebates to States on their Medicaid drug purchases. The amount of the rebates depends on a manufacturer's "average" and "best" prices, as defined by legislation and regulation. The 340B Program, like the Medicaid Rebate Program, uses a form contract as an opt-in mechanism. The 340B Program also draws on the larger scheme's pricing methodology. In the 340B Program's contract, called the Pharmaceutical Pricing Agreement (PPA), manufacturers agree to charge covered entities no more than predetermined ceiling prices, derived from the "average" and "best" prices and rebates calculated under the Medicaid Rebate Program.          HRSA may require a manufacturer who overcharges a covered entity to reimburse that entity. HRSA may also terminate the manufacturer's PPA, which terminates as well the manufacturer's eligibility for Medicaid coverage of its drugs. Currently, HRSA handles overcharge complaints through informal procedures, but the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) directs the Secretary to develop formal procedures. Once those procedures are in place, HRSA will reach an "administrative resolution," which will be subject to judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA). In addition to authorizing compensation awards to overcharged entities, the PPACA provides for the imposition of monetary penalties payable to the Government.          Respondent Santa Clara County (County), operator of several 340B entities, filed suit against Astra and eight other pharmaceutical companies, alleging that they were overcharging 340B entities in violation of the PPAs. Asserting that 340B entities are the PPAs' intended beneficiaries, the County sought compensatory damages for breach of contract. The District Court dismissed the complaint, concluding that the PPAs conferred no enforceable rights on 340B entities. Reversing, the Ninth Circuit held that, while 340B entities have no right to sue under the statute, they could proceed against drug manufacturers as third-party beneficiaries of the PPAs.Held: Suits by 340B entities to enforce ceiling-price contracts running between drug manufacturers and the Secretary of HHS are incompatible with the statutory regime. As the County has conceded, covered entities have no right of action under §340B itself. Congress vested authority to oversee compliance with the 340B Program in HHS and assigned no auxiliary enforcement role to covered entities. Nonetheless, the County maintains that the PPAs are contracts enforceable by covered entities as third-party beneficiaries. This argument overlooks that the PPAs simply incorporate statutory obligations and record the manufacturers' agreement to abide by them. The agreements have no negotiable terms. Like the Medicaid Rebate Program agreements, the PPAs provide the means by which drug manufacturers opt into the statutory scheme. A third-party suit to enforce an HHS-drug manufacturer agreement, therefore, is in essence a suit to enforce the statute itself. Telling in this regard, the County based its suit on allegations that the manufacturers charged more than the §340B ceiling price, not that they violated an independent substantive obligation arising from the PPAs.     The Ninth Circuit reasoned that suits like the County's would spread the enforcement burden instead of placing it entirely on the Government. But spreading the enforcement burden is hardly what Congress contemplated when it made HHS administrator of the interdependent Medicaid Rebate Program and 340B Program. Suits by 340B entities would undermine the agency's efforts to administer these two programs harmoniously and uniformly. Notably, the Medicaid Rebate Program's statute prohibits HHS from disclosing pricing information that could reveal the prices a manufacturer charges for its drugs. Had Congress meant to leave open the prospect of third-party beneficiary suits by 340B entities, it likely would not have barred them from obtaining the very information necessary to determine whether their asserted rights have been violated.     The Ninth Circuit noted that HHS's Office of the Inspector General has reported on HRSA's inadequate enforcement authority. But Congress did not respond to the reports of lax enforcement by inviting 340B entities to launch lawsuits. Instead, Congress opted to strengthen and formalize HRSA's enforcement authority, to make the new adjudicative framework the proper remedy for covered entities' complaints, and to render the agency's resolution of those complaints binding, subject to judicial review under the APA. Pp. 5-10.588 F. 3d 1237, reversed.     Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which all other Members joined, except Kagan, J., who took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.ASTRA USA, INC., et al., PETITIONERS v. SANTA CLARA COUNTY, CALIFORNIAon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[March 29, 2011]     Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.     Section 340B of the Public Health Services Act, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b (Oct. 2010 Supp.), imposes ceilings on prices drug manufacturers may charge for medications sold to specified health care facilities. Those facilities, here called "340B" or "covered" entities, include public hospitals and community health centers, many of them providers of safety-net services to the poor. The §340B ceiling-price program (340B Program) is superintended by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), a unit of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Drug manufacturers opt into the 340B Program by signing a form Pharmaceutical Pricing Agreement (PPA) used nationwide. PPAs are not transactional, bargained-for contracts. They are uniform agreements that recite the responsibilities §340B imposes, respectively, on drug manufacturers and the Secretary of HHS. Manufacturers' eligibility to participate in state Medicaid programs is conditioned on their entry into PPAs for covered drugs purchased by 340B entities.     It is conceded that Congress authorized no private right of action under §340B for covered entities who claim they have been charged prices exceeding the statutory ceiling. This case presents the question whether 340B entities, though accorded no right to sue for overcharges under the statute itself, may nonetheless sue allegedly overcharging manufacturers as third-party beneficiaries of the PPAs to which the manufacturers subscribed. We hold that suits by 340B entities to enforce ceiling-price contracts running between drug manufacturers and the Secretary of HHS are incompatible with the statutory regime.     Congress placed the Secretary (acting through her designate, HRSA) in control of §340B's drug-price prescriptions. That control could not be maintained were potentially thousands of covered entities permitted to bring suits alleging errors in manufacturers' price calculations. If 340B entities may not sue under the statute, it would make scant sense to allow them to sue on a form contract implementing the statute, setting out terms identical to those contained in the statute. Though labeled differently, suits to enforce §340B and suits to enforce PPAs are in substance one and the same. Their treatment, therefore, must be the same, "[n]o matter the clothing in which [340B entities] dress their claims." Tenet v. Doe, 544 U. S. 1, 8 (2005).IA     The 340B Program is tied to the earlier-enacted, much larger Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. Adopted by Congress in 1990, the Medicaid Rebate Program covers a significant portion of drug purchases in the United States. See GAO, J. Dicken, Prescription Drugs: Oversight of Drug Pricing in Federal Programs 1 (GAO-07-481T, 2007) (testimony before the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, House of Representatives).1 To gain payment under Medicaid for covered drugs, a manufacturer must enter a standardized agreement with HHS; in the agreement, the manufacturer undertakes to provide rebates to States on their Medicaid drug purchases. 104 Stat. 1388-143, as amended, 124 Stat. 3290, 42 U. S. C. A. §1396r-8(a). The amount of the rebates depends on the manufacturer's "average" and "best" prices, as defined by legislation and regulation. §1396r-8(c), (k).     Calculation of a manufacturer's "average" and "best" prices, undertaken by the pharmaceutical company, is a complex enterprise requiring recourse to detailed information about the company's sales and pricing. §1396r-8(k); 42 CFR §447.500-520 (2010). To enable HHS to calculate the rebate rate for each drug, manufacturers submit the relevant data to HHS on a quarterly basis. §1396r-8(b)(3). With exceptions set out in the legislation, HHS is prohibited from disclosing the submitted information "in a form which discloses the identity of a specific manufacturer ... [or] prices charged for drugs by such manu-facturer." §1396r-8(b)(3)(D).     Under §340B, added in 1992, 106 Stat. 4967, as amended, 124 Stat. 823, manufacturers participating in Medicaid must offer discounted drugs to covered entities, dominantly, local facilities that provide medical care for the poor. See §256b(a); §1396r-8(a)(1). The 340B Program, like the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, employs a form contract as an opt-in mechanism. The 340B Program also draws on the larger scheme's pricing methodology. In their 340B Program contracts with HHS, called Pharmaceutical Pricing Agreements (PPAs), see supra, at 1, manufacturers agree to charge covered entities no more than predetermined ceiling prices, derived from the "average" and "best" prices and rebates calculated under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. §256b(a)(1); see App. to Pet. for Cert. 165a-171a (PPA §I-II).2     If a manufacturer overcharges a covered entity, HRSA may require the manufacturer to reimburse the covered entity; HRSA may also terminate the manufacturer's PPA, §1396r-8(b)(4)(B)(i), (v); App. to Pet. for Cert. 174a (PPA §IV(c)), which terminates as well the manufacturer's eligibility for Medicaid coverage of its drugs, §1396r-8(a)(1), (5). Currently, HRSA handles overcharge complaints through informal procedures. Manufacturer Audit Guidelines and Dispute Resolution Process, 61 Fed. Reg. 65412 (1996). The 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), Pub. L. 111-148, 124 Stat. 119, provides for more rigorous enforcement. The PPACA directs the Secretary to develop formal procedures for resolving overcharge claims. Id., at 826, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d) (3)(A). Under those procedures, which are not yet in place, HRSA will reach an "administrative resolution" that is subject to judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5 U. S. C. §701 et seq. See 124 Stat. 827, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d)(3)(C). In addition to authorizing compensation awards to overcharged entities, the PPACA provides for the imposition of monetary penalties payable to the Government. Id., at 824-825, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d)(1)(B)(ii), (vi).B     Respondent Santa Clara County (County), operator of several 340B entities, commenced suit against Astra and eight other pharmaceutical companies, alleging that the companies were overcharging 340B health care facilities in violation of the PPAs to which the companies subscribed. The County styled its suit a class action on behalf of both 340B entities in California and the counties that fund those entities. Asserting that the 340B entities and the counties that fund them are the intended beneficiaries of the PPAs, the County sought compensatory damages for the pharmaceutical companies' breach of contract.     The District Court dismissed the complaint, concluding that the PPAs conferred no enforceable rights on 340B entities. Reversing the District Court's judgment, the Ninth Circuit held that covered entities, although they have no right to sue under the statute, could maintain the action as third-party beneficiaries of the PPAs. 588 F. 3d 1237, 1241 (2009).     We granted certiorari, 561 U. S. ___ (2010),3 and now reverse the Ninth Circuit's judgment.II     As the County conceded below and before this Court, see 588 F. 3d, at 1249; Tr. of Oral Arg. 45, covered entities have no right of action under §340B itself. "[R]ecognition of any private right of action for violating a federal statute," currently governing decisions instruct, "must ultimately rest on congressional intent to provide a private remedy." Virginia Bankshares, Inc. v. Sandberg, 501 U. S. 1083, 1102 (1991). See also Stoneridge Investment Partners, LLC v. Scientific-Atlanta, Inc., 552 U. S. 148, 164 (2008); Alexander v. Sandoval, 532 U. S. 275, 286 (2001). Congress vested authority to oversee compliance with the 340B Program in HHS and assigned no auxiliary enforcement role to covered entities.     Notwithstanding its inability to assert a statutory right of action, the County maintains that the PPAs implementing the 340B Program are agreements enforceable by covered entities as third-party beneficiaries. A nonparty becomes legally entitled to a benefit promised in a contract, the County recognizes, only if the contracting parties so intend. Brief for Respondent 31 (citing Restatement (Second) of Contracts §302(1)(b) (1979)). The PPAs "specifically nam[e]" covered entities as the recipients of discounted drugs, the County observes; indeed the very object of the agreements is to ensure that those entities would be "charge[d] ... no more than the ceiling price." Brief for Respondent 33. When the Government uses a contract to secure a benefit, the County urges, the intended recipient acquires a right to the benefit enforceable under federal common law. Id., at 30. But see 9 J. Murray, Corbin on Contracts §45.6, p. 92 (rev. ed. 2007) ("The distinction between an intention to benefit a third party and an intention that the third party should have the right to enforce that intention is emphasized where the promisee is a governmental entity.").     The County's argument overlooks that the PPAs simply incorporate statutory obligations and record the manufacturers' agreement to abide by them. The form agreements, composed by HHS, contain no negotiable terms. Like the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program agreements, see supra, at 3, the 340B Program agreements serve as the means by which drug manufacturers opt into the statutory scheme. A third-party suit to enforce an HHS-drug manufacturer agreement, therefore, is in essence a suit to enforce the statute itself. The absence of a private right to enforce the statutory ceiling price obligations would be rendered meaningless if 340B entities could overcome that obstacle by suing to enforce the contract's ceiling price obligations instead. The statutory and contractual obligations, in short, are one and the same. See Grochowski v. Phoenix Construction, 318 F. 3d 80, 86 (CA2 2003) (when a government contract confirms a statutory obligation, "a third-party private contract action [to enforce that obligation] would be inconsistent with ... the legislative scheme ... to the same extent as would a cause of action directly under the statute" (internal quotation marks omitted)).     Telling in this regard, the County based its suit on allegations that the manufacturers charged more than the §340B ceiling price, see, e.g., Third Amended Complaint in No. 3:05-cv-03740 (ND Cal.), ¶1, 65, not that they violated any independent substantive obligation arising only from the PPAs.4 Repeatedly, the County acknowledged that §340B is the source of the contractual term allegedly breached. See, e.g., id., ¶28 ("[Section] 340B requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to ensure that §340B Participants pay no more than the 'ceiling price' ... for any pharmaceutical product."); id., ¶36 ("Under both §340B and the PPA, [drug manufacturers] are required to ensure that the §340B Participants ... pay no more for any product than the §340B ceiling price.").     The Ninth Circuit determined that "[p]ermitting covered entities to sue as intended beneficiaries of the PPA is ... wholly compatible with the Section 340B program's objectives" to ensure "that drug companies comply with their obligations under the program and provide [the required] discounts." 588 F. 3d, at 1251. Suits like the County's, the Court of Appeals reasoned, would spread the enforcement burden instead of placing it "[entirely] on the government." Ibid. (citing Price v. Pierce, 823 F. 2d 1114, 1121 (CA7 1987)). But spreading the enforcement burden, the United States stressed, both in the Ninth Circuit and in this Court, is hardly what Congress contemplated when it "centralized enforcement in the government." Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 32; see Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae in No. 09-15216 (CA9), p. 13 (County's challenge is at odds with Congress' unitary administrative and enforcement scheme).5     Congress made HHS administrator of both the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and the 340B Program, the United States observed, Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 33-34, and "[t]he interdependent nature of the two programs' requirements means that an adjudication of rights under one program must proceed with an eye towards any implications for the other," id., at 34. Far from assisting HHS, suits by 340B entities would undermine the agency's efforts to administer both Medicaid and §340B harmoniously and on a uniform, nationwide basis.6 Recognizing the County's right to proceed in court could spawn a multitude of dispersed and uncoordinated lawsuits by 340B entities. With HHS unable to hold the control rein, the risk of conflicting adjudications would be substantial.     As earlier noted, see supra, at 3, the Medicaid Rebate Program's statute prohibits HHS from disclosing pricing information in a form that could reveal the prices a manufacturer charges for drugs it produces. §1396r-8(b)(3)(D).7 This ban on disclosure is a further indication of the incompatibility of private suits with the statute Congress enacted. If Congress meant to leave open the prospect of third-party beneficiary suits by 340B entities, it likely would not have barred the potential suitors from obtaining the very information necessary to determine whether their asserted rights have been violated.8     It is true, as the Ninth Circuit observed, that HHS's Office of the Inspector General (OIG) has published reports finding that "HRSA lacks the oversight mechanisms and authority to ensure that [covered] entities pay at or below the ... ceiling price." 588 F. 3d, at 1242 (quoting OIG, D. Levinson, Deficiencies in the Oversight of the 340B Drug Pricing Program ii (OEI-05-02-00072, Oct. 2005)). See also 588 F. 3d, at 1242-1243 (citing OIG, D. Levinson, Review of 340B Prices 11 (OEI-05-02-00073, July 2006) (estimating that covered entities overpaid $3.9 million in June 2005 alone)). But Congress did not respond to the reports of inadequate HRSA enforcement by inviting 340B entities to launch lawsuits in district courts across the country. Instead, in the PPACA, Congress directed HRSA to create a formal dispute resolution procedure, institute refund and civil penalty systems, and perform audits of manufacturers. 124 Stat. 823-827, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d). Congress thus opted to strengthen and formalize HRSA's enforcement authority, to make the new adjudicative framework the proper remedy for covered entities complaining of "overcharges and other violations of the discounted pricing requirements," id., at 823, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d)(1)(A), and to render the agency's resolution of covered entities' complaints binding, subject to judicial review under the APA, id., at 827, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d)(3)(C).*??*??*     For the reasons stated, the judgment of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit isReversed.     Justice Kagan took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.FOOTNOTESThe 1989 version of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208 (FMVSS 208) requires, as relevant here, auto manufacturers to install seatbelts on the rear seats of passenger vehicles. They must install lap-and-shoulder belts on seats next to a vehicle's doors or frames, but may install either those belts or simple lap belts on rear inner seats, e.g., those next to a minivan's aisle.          The Williamson family and Thanh Williamson's estate brought this California tort suit, claiming that Thanh died in an accident because the rear aisle seat of the Mazda minivan in which she was riding had a lap belt instead of lap-and-shoulder belts. The state trial court dismissed their claim on the pleadings. The State Court of Appeal affirmed, relying on Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861, in which this Court found that an earlier (1984) version of FMVSS 208--which required installation of passive restraint devices--pre-empted a state tort suit against an auto manufacturer on a failure to install airbags.Held: FMVSS 208 does not pre-empt state tort suits claiming that manufacturers should have installed lap-and-shoulder belts, instead of lap belts, on rear inner seats. Pp. 3-12.     (a) Because this case involves (1) the same statute as Geier, (2) a later version of the same regulation, and (3) a somewhat similar claim that a state tort action conflicts with the federal regulation, the answers to two of the subsidiary questions posed in Geier apply directly here. Thus, the statute's express pre-emption clause cannot pre-empt the common-law tort action here; but neither can its saving clause foreclose or limit the operation of ordinary conflict pre-emption principles. The Court consequently turns to Geier's third subsidiary question, whether, in fact, the state tort action conflicts with the federal regulation. Pp. 3-5.     (b) Under ordinary conflict pre-emption principles a state law that "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment" of a federal law is pre-empted. Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67. In Geier, the state law stood as an obstacle to the accomplishment of a significant federal regulatory objective, namely, giving manufacturers a choice among different kinds of passive restraint systems. This conclusion was supported by the regulation's history, the agency's contemporaneous explanation, and the Government's current understanding of the regulation. The history showed that the Department of Transportation (DOT) had long thought it important to leave manufacturers with a choice of systems. DOT's contemporaneous explanation of the regulation made clear that manufacturer choice was an important means for achieving DOT's basic objectives. It phased in passive restraint requirements to give manufacturers time to improve airbag technology and develop better systems; it worried that requiring airbags would cause a public backlash; and it was concerned about airbag safety and cost. Finally, the Government's current understanding was that a tort suit insisting upon airbag use would " ' "stan[d] as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of these objectives." ' " 529 U. S., at 883. Pp. 5-8.     (c) Like the regulation in Geier, the instant regulation leaves the manufacturer with a choice, and the tort suit here would restrict that choice. But in contrast to Geier, the choice here is not a significant regulatory objective. The regulation's history resembles the history of airbags to some degree. DOT rejected a regulation requiring lap-and-shoulder belts in rear seats in 1984. But by 1989, changed circumstances led DOT to require manufacturers to install lap-and-shoulder belts for rear outer seats but to retain a manufacturer choice for rear inner seats. Its reasons for doing so differed considerably from its 1984 reasons for permitting a choice of passive restraint. It was not concerned about consumer acceptance; it thought that lap-and-shoulder belts would increase safety and did not pose additional safety risks; and it was not seeking to use the regulation to spur development of alternative safety devices. Instead, DOT thought that the requirement would not be cost effective. That fact alone cannot show that DOT sought to forbid common-law tort suits. For one thing, DOT did not believe that costs would remain frozen. For another, many federal safety regulations embody a cost-effectiveness judgment. To infer pre-emptive intent from the mere existence of such a cost-effectiveness judgment would eliminate the possibility that the agency seeks only to set forth a minimum standard. Finally, the Solicitor General represents that DOT's regulation does not pre-empt this tort suit. As in Geier, "the agency's own views should make a difference," 529 U. S., at 883, and DOT has not expressed inconsistent views on this subject. Pp. 8-12.167 Cal. App. 4th 905, 84 Cal. Rptr. 3d 545, reversed.     Breyer, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Scalia, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Alito, and Sotomayor, JJ., joined. Sotomayor, J., filed a concurring opinion. Thomas, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment. Kagan, J., took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.DELBERT WILLIAMSON, et al., PETITIONERS v. MAZDA MOTOR OF AMERICA, INC., et al.on writ of certiorari to the court of appeal of cali-fornia, fourth appellate district, division three[February 23, 2011]     Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court.     Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208 (1989 version) requires, among other things, that auto manufacturers install seatbelts on the rear seats of passenger vehicles. They must install lap-and-shoulder belts on seats next to a vehicle's doors or frames. But they have a choice about what to install on rear inner seats (say, middle seats or those next to a minivan's aisle). There they can install either (1) simple lap belts or (2) lap-and-shoulder belts. 54 Fed. Reg. 46257-46258 (1989); 49 CFR §571.208 (1993), promulgated pursuant to the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (Act), 80 Stat. 718, 15 U. S. C. §1381 et seq. (1988 ed.) (recodified without substantive change at 49 U. S. C. §30101 et seq. (2006 ed.)).     The question presented here is whether this federal regulation pre-empts a state tort suit that, if successful, would deny manufacturers a choice of belts for rear inner seats by imposing tort liability upon those who choose to install a simple lap belt. We conclude that providing manufacturers with this seatbelt choice is not a significant objective of the federal regulation. Consequently, the regulation does not pre-empt the state tort suit.I     In 2002, the Williamson family, riding in their 1993 Mazda minivan, was struck head on by another vehicle. Thanh Williamson was sitting in a rear aisle seat, wearing a lap belt; she died in the accident. Delbert and Alexa Williamson were wearing lap-and-shoulder belts; they survived. They, along with Thanh's estate, subsequently brought this California tort suit against Mazda. They claimed that Mazda should have installed lap-and-shoulder belts on rear aisle seats, and that Thanh died because Mazda equipped her seat with a lap belt instead.     The California trial court dismissed this tort claim on the basis of the pleadings. And the California Court of Appeal affirmed. The appeals court noted that in Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861 (2000), this Court considered whether a different portion of (an older version of) Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208 (FMVSS 208)--a portion that required installation of passive restraint devices--pre-empted a state tort suit that sought to hold an auto manufacturer liable for failure to install a particular kind of passive restraint, namely, airbags. We found that the federal regulation intended to assure manufacturers that they would retain a choice of installing any of several different passive restraint devices. And the regulation sought to assure them that they would not have to exercise this choice in favor of airbags. For that reason we thought that the federal regulation pre-empted a state tort suit that, by premising tort liability on a failure to install airbags, would have deprived the manufacturers of the choice that the federal regulation had assured them. Id., at 874-875.     The court saw considerable similarity between this case and Geier. The federal regulation at issue here gives manufacturers a choice among two different kinds of seatbelts for rear inner seats. And a state lawsuit that premises tort liability on a failure to install a particular kind of seatbelt, namely, lap-and-shoulder belts, would in effect deprive the manufacturer of that choice. The court concluded that, as in Geier, the federal regulation pre-empts the state tort suit. 167 Cal. App. 4th 905, 84 Cal. Rptr. 3d 545 (2008).     The Williamsons sought certiorari. And we granted certiorari in light of the fact that several courts have interpreted Geier as indicating that FMVSS 208 pre-empts state tort suits claiming that manufacturers should have installed lap-and-shoulder belts, not lap belts, on rear inner seats. Carden v. General Motors Corp., 509 F. 3d 227 (CA5 2007); Roland v. General Motors Corp., 881 N. E. 2d 722 (Ind. App. 2008); Heinricher v. Volvo Car Corp., 61 Mass. App. 313, 809 N. E. 2d 1094 (2004).II     In Geier, we considered a portion of an earlier (1984) version of FMVSS 208. That regulation required manufacturers to equip their vehicles with passive restraint systems, thereby providing occupants with automatic accident protection. 49 Fed. Reg. 28983 (1984). But that regulation also gave manufacturers a choice among several different passive restraint systems, including airbags and automatic seatbelts. Id., at 28996. The question before the Court was whether the Act, together with the regulation, pre-empted a state tort suit that would have held a manufacturer liable for not installing airbags. 529 U. S., at 865. By requiring manufacturers to install airbags (in order to avoid tort liability) the tort suit would have deprived the manufacturers of the choice among passive restraint systems that the federal regulation gave them. See Hillsborough County v. Automated Medical Laboratories, Inc., 471 U. S. 707, 713 (1985) ("[S]tate laws can be pre-empted by federal regulations as well as by federal statutes").     We divided this basic pre-emption question into three subsidiary questions. 529 U. S., at 867. First, we asked whether the statute's express pre-emption provision preempted the state tort suit. That statutory clause says that "no State" may "establish, or . . . continue in effect . . . any safety standard applicable to the same aspect of performance" of a motor vehicle or item of equipment "which is not identical to the Federal standard." 15 U. S. C. §1392(d) (1988 ed.) (emphasis added). We had previously held that a word somewhat similar to "standard," namely, "requirements" (found in a similar statute) included within its scope state "common-law duties," such as duties created by state tort law. Medtronic, Inc. v. Lohr, 518 U. S. 470, 502-503 (1996) (plurality opinion); id., at 503-505 (Breyer, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment); id., at 509-512 (O'Connor, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). But we nonetheless held that the state tort suit in question fell outside the scope of this particular pre-emption clause. That is primarily because the statute also contains a saving clause, which says that "[c]ompliance with" a federal safety standard "does not exempt any person from any liability under common law." 15 U. S. C. §1397(k) (emphasis added). Since tort law is ordinarily "common law," we held that "the presence of the saving clause," makes clear that Congress intended state tort suits to fall outside the scope of the express pre-emption clause. Geier, 529 U. S., at 868.     Second, we asked the converse question: The saving clause at least removes tort actions from the scope of the express pre-emption clause. Id., at 869. But does it do more? Does it foreclose or limit "the operation of ordinary pre-emption principles insofar as those principles instruct us to read" federal statutes as pre-empting state laws (including state common-law standards) that "actually conflict" with the federal statutes (or related regulations)? Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). We concluded that the saving clause does not foreclose or limit the operation of "ordinary pre-emption principles, grounded in longstanding precedent." Id., at 874.     These two holdings apply directly to the case before us. We here consider (1) the same statute, 15 U. S. C. §1381 et seq.; (2) a later version of the same regulation, FMVSS 208; and (3) a somewhat similar claim that a state tort action conflicts with the federal regulation. In light of Geier, the statute's express pre-emption clause cannot pre-empt the common-law tort action; but neither can the statute's saving clause foreclose or limit the operation of ordinary conflict pre-emption principles. We consequently turn our attention to Geier's third subsidiary question, whether, in fact, the state tort action conflicts with the federal regulation.III     Under ordinary conflict pre-emption principles a state law that "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives" of a federal law is pre-empted. Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941). See ibid. (federal statute can pre-empt a state statute); Cipollone v. Liggett Group, Inc., 505 U. S. 504 (1992) (federal statute can pre-empt a state tort suit); Fidelity Fed. Sav. & Loan Assn. v. De la Cuesta, 458 U. S. 141 (1982) (federal regulation can pre-empt a state statute); Geier, supra (federal regulation can pre-empt a state tort suit). In Geier we found that the state law stood as an " 'obstacle' to the accomplishment" of a significant federal regulatory objective, namely, the maintenance of manufacturer choice. 529 U. S., at 886. We must decide whether the same is true here.A     At the heart of Geier lies our determination that giving auto manufacturers a choice among different kinds of passive restraint devices was a significant objective of the federal regulation. We reached this conclusion on the basis of our examination of the regulation, including its history, the promulgating agency's contemporaneous explanation of its objectives, and the agency's current views of the regulation's pre-emptive effect.     The history showed that the Department of Transportation (DOT) had long thought it important to leave manufacturers with a choice. In 1967 DOT required manufacturers to install manual seat belts. Geier, supra, at 875; 32 Fed. Reg. 2408, 2415 (1967). Because many car occupants did not "buckle up," DOT began to require passive protection, such as airbags or automatic seatbelts, but without "favor[ing] or "expect[ing]" the use of airbags. Geier, supra, at 875 (internal quotation marks omitted); 35 Fed. Reg. 16927 (1970). DOT subsequently approved the use of ignition interlocks, which froze the ignition until the occupant buckled the belt, as a substitute for passive restraints. Geier, supra, at 876; 37 Fed. Reg. 3911 (1972). But the interlock devices were unpopular with the public, and Congress soon forbade the agency to make them a means of compliance. Geier, supra, at 876; Motor Vehicle and Schoolbus Safety Amendments of 1974, §109, 88 Stat. 1482 (previously codified at 15 U. S. C. §1410(b) (1988 ed.)). DOT then temporarily switched to the use of demonstration projects, but later it returned to mandating passive restraints, again leaving manufacturers with a choice of systems. Geier, supra, at 876-877; see 49 Fed. Reg. 28962 (1984).     DOT's contemporaneous explanation of its 1984 regulation made clear that manufacturer choice was an important means for achieving its basic objectives. The 1984 regulation gradually phased in passive restraint requirements, initially requiring manufacturers to equip only 10% of their new fleets with passive restraints. DOT explained that it intended its phasing period partly to give manufacturers time to improve airbag technology and to develop "other, better" passive restraint systems. Geier, 529 U. S., at 879. DOT further explained that it had rejected an " 'all airbag' " system. Ibid. It was worried that requiring airbags in most or all vehicles would cause a public backlash, like the backlash against interlock devices. Ibid. DOT also had concerns about the safety of airbags, for they could injure out-of-place occupants, particularly children. Id., at 877-878. And, given the cost of airbags, vehicle owners might not replace them when necessary, leaving occupants without passive protection. Ibid. The regulation therefore "deliberately sought variety--a mix of several different passive restraint systems." Id., at 878. DOT hoped that this mix would lead to better information about the devices' comparative effectiveness and to the eventual development of "alternative, cheaper, and safer passive restraint systems." Id., at 879.     Finally, the Solicitor General told us that a tort suit that insisted upon use of airbags, as opposed to other federally permissible passive restraint systems, would "stan[d] as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of these objectives." Id., at 883 (quoting Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae in Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., O. T. 1999, No. 98-1811, pp. 25-26 (hereinafter United States Brief in Geier) (internal quotation marks omitted)). And we gave weight to the Solicitor General's view in light of the fact that it " 'embodie[d] the Secretary's policy judgment that safety would best be promoted if manufacturers installed alternative protection systems in their fleets rather than one particular system in every car.' " 529 U. S., at 881 (quoting United States Brief in Geier 25-26).     Taken together, this history, the agency's contemporaneous explanation, and the Government's current understanding of the regulation convinced us that manufacturer choice was an important regulatory objective. And since the tort suit stood as an obstacle to the accomplishment of that objective, we found the tort suit pre-empted.B     We turn now to the present case. Like the regulation in Geier, the regulation here leaves the manufacturer with a choice. And, like the tort suit in Geier, the tort suit here would restrict that choice. But unlike Geier, we do not believe here that choice is a significant regulatory objective.     We concede that the history of the regulation before us resembles the history of airbags to some degree. In 1984, DOT rejected a regulation that would have required the use of lap-and-shoulder belts in rear seats. 49 Fed. Reg. 15241. Nonetheless, by 1989 when DOT promulgated the present regulation, it had "concluded that several factors had changed." 54 Fed. Reg. 46258.     DOT then required manufacturers to install a particular kind of belt, namely, lap-and-shoulder belts, for rear outer seats. In respect to rear inner seats, it retained manufacturer choice as to which kind of belt to install. But its 1989 reasons for retaining that choice differed considerably from its 1984 reasons for permitting manufacturers a choice in respect to airbags. DOT here was not concerned about consumer acceptance; it was convinced that lap-and-shoulder belts would increase safety; it did not fear additional safety risks arising from use of those belts; it had no interest in assuring a mix of devices; and, though it was concerned about additional costs, that concern was diminishing.     In respect to consumer acceptance, DOT wrote that if"people who are familiar with and in the habit of wearing lap/shoulder belts in the front seat find lap/shoulder belts in the rear seat, it stands to reason that they would be more likely to wear those belts when riding in the rear seat." 53 Fed. Reg. 47983 (1988).     In respect to safety, DOT wrote that, because an increasing number of rear seat passengers wore seatbelts, rear seat lap-and-shoulder belts would have "progressively greater actual safety benefits." 54 Fed. Reg. 46257.It added:"[s]tudies of occupant protection from 1968 forward show that the lap-only safety belts installed in rear seating positions are effective in reducing the risk of death and injury. . . . However, the agency believes that rear-seat lap/shoulder safety belts would be even more effective." Ibid.     Five years earlier, DOT had expressed concern that lap-and-shoulder belts might negatively impact child safety by interfering with the use of certain child car seats that relied upon a tether. But by 1989, DOT found that car-seat designs "had shifted away" from tethers. 53 Fed. Reg. 47983. And rear lap-and-shoulder belts could therefore offer safety benefits for children old enough to use them without diminishing the safety of smaller children in car seats. Id., at 47988-47989 ("[T]he agency believes that this proposal for rear seat lap/shoulder belts would offer benefits for children riding in some types of booster seats, would have no positive or negative effects on children riding in most designs of car seats and children that are too small to use shoulder belts, and would offer older children the same incremental safety protection [as adults]"). Nor did DOT seek to use its regulation to spur the development of alternative kinds of rear aisle or middle seat safety devices. See 54 Fed. Reg. 46257.     Why then did DOT not require lap-and-shoulder belts in these seats? We have found some indication that it thought use of lap-and-shoulder belts in rear aisle seats could cause "entry and exit problems for occupants of seating positions to the rear" by "stretch[ing] the shoulder belt across the aisleway," id., at 46258. However, DOT encouraged manufacturers to address this issue through innovation:"[I]n those cases where manufacturers are able to design and install lap/shoulder belts at seating positions adjacent to aisleways without interfering with the aisleway's purpose of allowing access to more rearward seating positions[, the agency] encourages the manufacturers to do so." 54 Fed. Reg. 46258.And there is little indication that DOT considered this matter a significant safety concern. Cf. Letter from Philip R. Recht, Chief Counsel, National Highway Traffic Safety Admin., to Roger Matoba (Dec. 28, 1994), App. to Reply Brief for Petitioners 2 ("With respect to your concerns about the safety of shoulder safety belts which cross an aisle, I note that such belts do not in fact prevent rearward passengers from exiting the vehicle. Such passengers may ... g[o] under or over the belt. They may also move the belt aside").     The more important reason why DOT did not require lap-and-shoulder belts for rear inner seats was that it thought that this requirement would not be cost-effective. The agency explained that it would be significantly more expensive for manufacturers to install lap-and-shoulder belts in rear middle and aisle seats than in seats next to the car doors. Ibid. But that fact--the fact that DOT made a negative judgment about cost effectiveness--cannot by itself show that DOT sought to forbid common-law tort suits in which a judge or jury might reach a different conclusion.     For one thing, DOT did not believe that costs would remain frozen. Rather it pointed out that costs were falling as manufacturers were "voluntarily equipping more and more of their vehicles with rear seat lap/shoulder belts." Ibid. For another thing, many, perhaps most, federal safety regulations embody some kind of cost-effectiveness judgment. While an agency could base a decision to pre-empt on its cost-effectiveness judgment, we are satisfied that the rulemaking record at issue here discloses no such pre-emptive intent. And to infer from the mere existence of such a cost-effectiveness judgment that the federal agency intends to bar States from imposing stricter standards would treat all such federal standards as if they were maximum standards, eliminating the possibility that the federal agency seeks only to set forth a minimum standard potentially supplemented through state tort law. We cannot reconcile this consequence with a statutory saving clause that foresees the likelihood of a continued meaningful role for state tort law. Supra, at 4.     Finally, the Solicitor General tells us that DOT's regulation does not pre-empt this tort suit. As in Geier, "the agency's own views should make a difference." 529 U. S., at 883."Congress has delegated to DOT authority to implement the statute; the subject matter is technical; and the relevant history and background are complex and extensive. The agency is likely to have a thorough understanding of its own regulation and its objectives and is 'uniquely qualified' to comprehend the likely impact of state requirements." Ibid.There is "no reason to suspect that the Solicitor General's representation of DOT's views reflects anything other than 'the agency's fair and considered judgment on the matter.' " Id., at 884 (quoting Auer v. Robbins, 519 U. S. 452, 462 (1997)).     Neither has DOT expressed inconsistent views on this subject. In Geier, the Solicitor General pointed out that "state tort law does not conflict with a federal 'minimum standard' merely because state law imposes a more stringent requirement." United States Brief in Geier 21 (citation omitted). And the Solicitor General explained that a standard giving manufacturers "multiple options for the design of" a device would not pre-empt a suit claiming that a manufacturer should have chosen one particular option, where "the Secretary did not determine that the availability of options was necessary to promote safety." Id., at 22; see Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae in Wood v. General Motors Corp., O. T. 1989, No. 89-46, p. 15. This last statement describes the present case.     In Geier, then, the regulation's history, the agency's contemporaneous explanation, and its consistently held interpretive views indicated that the regulation sought to maintain manufacturer choice in order to further significant regulatory objectives. Here, these same considerations indicate the contrary. We consequently conclude that, even though the state tort suit may restrict the manufacturer's choice, it does not "stan[d] as an obstacle to the accomplishment . . . of the full purposes and objectives" of federal law. Hines, 312 U. S., at 67. Thus, the regulation does not pre-empt this tort action.     The judgment of the California Court of Appeal is reversed.It is so ordered.     Justice Kagan took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.DELBERT WILLIAMSON, et al., PETITIONERS v. MAZDA MOTOR OF AMERICA, INC., et al.on writ of certiorari to the court of appeal of cali-fornia, fourth appellate district, division three[February 23, 2011]     Justice Sotomayor, concurring.     As the Court notes, this is not the first case in which the Court has encountered the express pre-emption provision and saving clause of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, 80 Stat. 718, 15 U. S. C. §1381 et seq. (1988 ed.) (recodified without substantive change at 49 U. S. C. §30101 et seq. (2006 ed. and Supp. III)). In Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861 (2000), the Court concluded that the "saving clause (like the express pre-emption provision) does not bar the ordinary working of conflict pre-emption principles," id., at 869, and therefore engaged in an implied pre-emption analysis. The majority and dissent in Geier agreed that "a court should not find pre-emption too readily in the absence of clear evidence of a conflict." Id., at 885.     I agree with the majority's resolution of this case and with its reasoning. I write separately only to emphasize the Court's rejection of an overreading of Geier that has developed since that opinion was issued.     Geier does not stand, as the California Court of Appeal, 167 Cal. App. 4th 905, 918-919, 84 Cal. Rptr. 3d 545, 555-556 (2008), other courts, and some of respondents' amici seem to believe, for the proposition that any time an agency gives manufacturers a choice between two or more options, a tort suit that imposes liability on the basis of one of the options is an obstacle to the achievement of a federal regulatory objective and may be pre-empted.** Rather, Geier turned on the fact that the agency, via Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, "deliberately sought variety--a mix of several different passive restraint systems." 529 U. S., at 878; ante, at 7. As the United States notes, "a conflict results only when the Safety Act (or regulations implementing the Safety Act) does not just set out options for compliance, but also provides that the regulated parties must remain free to choose among those options." Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 8. In other words, the mere fact that an agency regulation allows manufacturers a choice between options is insufficient to justify implied pre-emption; courts should only find pre-emption where evidence exists that an agency has a regulatory objective--e.g., obtaining a mix of passive restraint mechanisms, as in Geier--whose achievement depends on manufacturers having a choice between options. A link between a regulatory objective and the need for manufacturer choice to achieve that objective is the lynchpin of implied pre-emption when there is a saving clause.     Absent strong indications from the agency that it needs manufacturers to have options in order to achieve a "significant ... regulatory objective," ante, at 5, state tort suits are not "obstacle[s] to the accomplishment ... of the full purposes and objectives" of federal law, Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941). As the majority explains, the agency here gave no indication that its safety goals required the mixture of seatbelt types that resulted from manufacturers' ability to choose different options. Ante, at 8-12 (distinguishing the regulatory record in this case from that in Geier).     Especially in light of the "statutory saving clause that foresees the likelihood of a continued meaningful role for state tort law," ante, at 11, respondents have not carried their burden of establishing that the agency here "deliberately sought variety" to achieve greater safety, Geier, 529 U. S., at 878. Therefore, the Williamsons' tort suit does not present an obstacle to any "significant federal regulatory objective," ante, at 5, and may not be pre-empted.     For these reasons, I concur.DELBERT WILLIAMSON, et al., PETITIONERS v. MAZDA MOTOR OF AMERICA, INC., et al.on writ of certiorari to the court of appeal of cali-fornia, fourth appellate district, division three[February 23, 2011]     Justice Thomas, concurring in the judgment.     The Court concludes that the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (Safety Act) and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208 (FMVSS 208) do not pre-empt the Williamsons' state tort lawsuit. I agree. But I reach this result by a more direct route: the Safety Act's saving clause, which speaks directly to this question and answers it. See 49 U. S. C. §30103(e).I     The plain text of the Safety Act resolves this case. Congress has instructed that "[c]ompliance with a motor vehicle safety standard prescribed under this chapter does not exempt a person from liability at common law." Ibid. This saving clause "explicitly preserv[es] state common-law actions." Wyeth v. Levine, 555 U. S. ___, ___ (2009) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 18). Here, Mazda complied with FMVSS 208 when it chose to install a simple lap belt. According to Mazda, the Williamsons' lawsuit alleging that it should have installed a lap-and-shoulder seatbelt instead is pre-empted. That argument is foreclosed by the saving clause; the Williamsons' state tort action is not pre-empted.     The majority does not rely on the Safety Act's saving clause because this Court effectively read it out of the statute in Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861 (2000). In Geier, the Court interpreted the saving clause as simply cancelling out the statute's express pre-emption clause with respect to common-law tort actions. This left the Court free to consider the effect of conflict pre-emption principles on such tort actions. See id., at 869.     But it makes no sense to read the express pre-emption clause in conjunction with the saving clause. See id., at 898 (Stevens, J., dissenting). The express pre-emption clause bars States from having any safety "standard applicable to the same aspect of performance" as a federal standard unless it is "identical" to the federal one. §30103(b). That clause pre-empts States from establishing "objective rule[s] prescribed by a legislature or an administrative agency" in competition with the federal standards; it says nothing about the tort lawsuits that are the focus of the saving clause. Id., at 896.** Read independently of the express pre-emption clause, the saving clause simply means what it says: FMVSS 208 does not pre-empt state common-law actions.II     As in Geier, rather than following the plain text of the statute, the majority's analysis turns on whether the tort lawsuit here " 'stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives' " of FMVSS 208. Ante, at 5 (quoting Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941)). I have rejected purposes-and-objectives pre-emption as inconsistent with the Constitution because it turns entirely on extratextual "judicial suppositions." Wyeth, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 22); see also Haywood v. Drown, 556 U. S. ___, ___ (2009) (dissenting opinion) (slip op., at 26-27).     Pre-emption occurs "by direct operation of the Supremacy Clause," Brown v. Hotel Employees, 468 U. S. 491, 501 (1984), which "requires that pre-emptive effect be given only to those federal standards and policies that are set forth in, or necessarily follow from, the statutory text that was produced through the constitutionally required bicameral and presentment procedures." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5) (opinion of Thomas, J.). In short, pre-emption must turn on the text of a federal statute or the regulations it authorizes. See id., at ___ (slip op., at 6); see also Geier, supra, at 911 (Stevens, J., dissenting).     Purposes-and-objectives pre-emption--which by design roams beyond statutory or regulatory text--is thus wholly illegitimate. It instructs courts to pre-empt state laws based on judges' "conceptions of a policy which Congress has not expressed and which is not plainly to be inferred from the legislation which it has enacted." Hines, supra, at 75 (Stone, J., dissenting); Geier, supra, at 907 (opinion of Stevens, J.) (expressing concern about judges "running amok with our potentially boundless (and perhaps inadequately considered) [purposes-and-objectives pre-emption doctrine]"); see also Wyeth, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 13-21) (opinion of Thomas, J.) (recounting the history of the doctrine).     The majority's purposes-and-objectives pre-emption analysis displays the inherent constitutional problem with the doctrine. The Court begins with FMVSS 208, which allowed manufacturers to install either simple lap or lap-and-shoulder seatbelts in the rear aisle seat of 1993 minivans. The majority then turns to what it considers the primary issue: whether "that choice [was] a significant regulatory objective." Ante, at 8 (emphasis added). Put more plainly, the question is whether the regulators really wanted manufacturers to have a choice or did not really want them to have a choice but gave them one anyway.     To answer that question, the majority engages in a "freewheeling, extratextual, and broad evaluatio[n] of the 'purposes and objectives' " of FMVSS 208. Wyeth, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 23) (opinion of Thomas, J.). The Court wades into a sea of agency musings and Government litigating positions and fishes for what the agency may have been thinking 20 years ago when it drafted the relevant provision. After scrutinizing the 1989 Federal Register, a letter written in 1994, and the Solicitor General's present-day assurances, the Court finds that Department of Transportation liked the idea of lap-and-shoulder seatbelts in all seats, but did not require them, primarily for cost-efficiency reasons and also because of some concern for ingress-egress around the belt mounts. Ante, at 8-11. From all of this, the majority determines that although the regulators specifically and intentionally gave manufacturers a choice between types of seatbelts, that choice was not a "significant regulatory objective" and so does not pre-empt state tort lawsuits.     That the Court in Geier reached an opposite conclusion reveals the utterly unconstrained nature of purposes-and-objectives pre-emption. There is certainly "considerable similarity between this case and Geier." Ante, at 2. Just as in this case, Geier involved a choice offered to car manufacturers in FMVSS 208: whether to install airbags. Ante, at 8. And just as in this case, the Court in Geier relied on "history, the agency's contemporaneous explanation, and the Government's current understanding" to determine the significance of that choice. Ante, at 7-8. Yet the Geier Court concluded that "giving auto manufacturers a choice among different kinds of passive restraint devices was a significant objective of the federal regulation," ante, at 6, and thus found the Geiers' lawsuit pre-empted.     The dispositive difference between this case and Geier--indeed, the only difference--is the majority's "psychoanalysis" of the regulators. United States v. Public Util. Comm'n of Cal., 345 U. S. 295, 319 (1953) (Jackson, J., concurring) (describing reliance on legislative history). The majority cites no difference on the face of FMVSS 208 between the airbag choice addressed in Geier and the seatbelt choice at issue in this case.     According to the majority, to determine whether FMVSS 208 pre-empts a tort suit, courts apparently must embark on the same expedition undertaken here: sifting through the Federal Register, examining agency ruminations, and asking the Government what it currently thinks. Pre-emption is then proper if the court decides that the regulators thought the choice especially important, but not if the choice was only somewhat important. This quest roves far from the Safety Act and analyzes pre-emption based on a formless inquiry into how strongly an agency felt about the regulation it enacted 20 years ago.     "[F]reeranging speculation about what the purposes of the [regulation] must have been" is not constitutionally proper in any case. Wyeth, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 15) (opinion of Thomas, J.). The Supremacy Clause commands that the "[l]aws of the United States," not the unenacted hopes and dreams of the Department of Transportation, "shall be the supreme Law of the Land." U. S. Const., Art. VI, cl. 2. The impropriety is even more obvious here because the plain text of the Safety Act resolves this case.     For these reasons, I concur in the judgment.FOOTNOTESPetitioner Marx filed suit, alleging that General Revenue Corporation (GRC) violated the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) by harassing and falsely threatening her in order to collect on a debt. The District Court ruled against Marx and awarded GRC costs pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure (FRCP) 54(d)(1), which gives district courts discretion to award costs to prevailing defendants "[u]nless a federal statute . . . provides otherwise." Marx sought to vacate the award, arguing that the court's discretion under Rule 54(d)(1) was displaced by 15 U. S. C. §1692k(a)(3), which provides, in pertinent part, that "[o]n a finding by the court that an action under this section was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award to the defendant attorney's fees reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs." The District Court rejected Marx's argument. The Tenth Circuit affirmed, in pertinent part, agreeing that costs are allowed under the Rule and concluding that nothing in the statute's text, history, or purpose indicates that it was meant to displace the Rule.Held: Section §1692k(a)(3) is not contrary to, and, thus, does not displace a district court's discretion to award costs under, Rule 54(d)(1). Pp. 4-16.     (a) Rule 54(d)(1) gives courts discretion to award costs to prevailing parties, but this discretion can be displaced by a federal statute or FRCP that "provides otherwise," i.e., is "contrary" to Rule 54(d)(1). Contrary to the argument of Marx and the United States, as amicus, language of the original 1937 version of the Rule does not suggest that any "express provision" for costs should displace Rule 54(d)(1), regardless of whether it is contrary to the Rule. Pp. 4-7.     (b) Section 1692k(a)(3)'s language and context demonstrate that the provision is not contrary to Rule 54(d)(1). Pp. 7-15.          (1) GRC argues that since §1692k(a)(3) does not address whether costs may be awarded in an FDCPA case brought in good faith, it does not set forth a standard that is contrary to the Rule and therefore does not displace the presumption that a court has discretion to award costs. Marx and the United States concede that the statute does not expressly limit a court's discretion to award costs under the Rule, but argue that it does so by negative implication. They claim that unless §1692k(a)(3) sets forth the exclusive basis on which to award costs, the phrase "and costs" would be superfluous with Rule 54(d)(1). And the United States also argues that §1692k(a)(3)'s more specific cost statute displaces Rule 54(d)(1)'s more general rule. Pp. 7-9.          (2) The argument of Marx and the United States depends critically on whether §1692k(a)(3)'s allowance of costs creates a negative implication that costs are unavailable in any other circumstances. The expressio unius canon that they invoke does not apply "unless it is fair to suppose that Congress considered the unnamed possibility and meant to say no to it," Barnhart v. Peabody Coal Co., 537 U. S. 149, 168, and can be overcome by "contrary indications that adopting a particular rule or statute was probably not meant to signal any exclusion," United States v. Vonn, 535 U. S. 55, 65. Here, context indicates that Congress did not intend §1692k(a)(3) to foreclose courts from awarding costs under the Rule. First, under the American Rule, each litigant generally pays his own attorney's fees, but the Court has long recognized that federal courts have inherent power to award attorney's fees in a narrow set of circumstances, e.g., when a party brings an action in bad faith. The statute is thus best read as codifying a court's pre-existing authority to award both attorney's fees and costs. Next, §1692k(a)(3)'s second sentence must be understood in light of its first, which provides an award of attorney's fees and costs, but to prevailing plaintiffs. By adding "and costs" to the second sentence, Congress foreclosed the argument that defendants can only recover attorney's fees when plaintiffs bring an action in bad faith and removed any doubt that defendants may recover costs as well as attorney's fees in such cases. Finally, §1692k(a)(3)'s language sharply contrasts with that of other statutes in which Congress has placed conditions on awarding costs to prevailing defendants. See, e.g., 28 U. S. C. §1928. Pp. 9-12.          (3) Even assuming that their surplusage argument is correct, the canon against surplusage is not absolute. First, the canon "assists only where a competing interpretation gives effect to every clause and word of a statute." Microsoft Corp. v. i4i Ltd. Partnership, 564 U. S. ___, ___. Here, no interpretation of §1692k(a)(3) gives effect to every word. Second, redundancy is not unusual in statutes addressing costs. See, e.g., 12 U. S. C. §2607(d)(5). Finally, the canon is strongest when an interpretation would render superfluous another part of the same statutory scheme. Because §1692k(a)(3) is not part of Rule 54(d)(1), the force of this canon is diminished. Pp. 13-14.          (4) Lastly, contrary to the United States' claim that specific cost-shifting standards displace general ones, the context of the statute indicates that Congress was simply confirming the background presumption that courts may award to defendants attorney's fees and costs when the plaintiff brings an action in bad faith. Because Marx did not bring this suit in bad faith, the specific provision is not applicable. Pp. 14-15.668 F. 3d 1174, affirmed.     Thomas, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Scalia, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, and Alito, JJ., joined. Sotomayor, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Kagan, J., joined.Opinion of the Court?568 U. S. ____ (2013)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 11-1175OLIVEA MARX, PETITIONER v. GENERAL REVENUE CORPORATIONon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the tenth circuit[February 26, 2013]     Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court.     Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d)(1) gives district courts discretion to award costs to prevailing defendants "[u]nless a federal statute . . . provides otherwise." The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA), 91 Stat. 881, 15 U. S. C. §1692k(a)(3), provides that "[o]n a finding by the court that an action under this section was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award to the defendant attorney's fees reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs." This case presents the question whether §1692k(a)(3) "provides otherwise" than Rule 54(d)(1). We conclude that §1692k(a)(3) does not "provid[e] otherwise," and thus a district court may award costs to prevailing defendants in FDCPA cases without finding that the plaintiff brought the case in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment.I     Petitioner Olivea Marx defaulted on a student loan guaranteed by EdFund, a division of the California Student Aid Commission. In September 2008, EdFund hired respondent General Revenue Corporation (GRC) to collect the debt. One month later, Marx filed an FDCPA enforcement action against GRC.1 Marx alleged that GRC had violated the FDCPA by harassing her with phone calls several times a day and falsely threatening to garnish up to 50% of her wages and to take the money she owed directly from her bank account. Shortly after the complaint was filed, GRC made an offer of judgment under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 68 to pay Marx $1,500, plus reasonable attorney's fees and costs, to settle any claims she had against it. Marx did not respond to the offer. She subsequently amended her complaint to add a claim that GRC unlawfully sent a fax to her workplace that requested information about her employment status.     Following a 1-day bench trial, the District Court found that Marx had failed to prove any violation of the FDCPA. As the prevailing party, GRC submitted a bill of costs seeking $7,779.16 in witness fees, witness travel expenses, and deposition transcript fees. The court disallowed several items of costs and, pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d)(1), ordered Marx to pay GRC $4,543.03. Marx filed a motion to vacate the award of costs, arguing that the court lacked authority to award costs under Rules 54(d)(1) and 68(d) because 15 U. S. C. §1692k(a)(3) sets forth the exclusive basis for awarding costs in FDCPA cases.2 Section 1692k(a)(3) provides, in relevant part: "On a finding by the court that an action under this section was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award to the defendant attorney's fees reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs." Marx argued that because the court had not found that she brought the case in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, GRC was not entitled to costs. The District Court rejected Marx's argument, concluding that §1692k(a)(3) does not displace a court's discretion to award costs under Rule 54(d)(1) and that costs should also be awarded under Rule 68(d).     The Tenth Circuit affirmed but agreed only with part of the District Court's reasoning. In particular, the court disagreed that costs were allowed under Rule 68(d). 668 F. 3d 1174, 1182 (2011). It explained that "Rule 68 applies only where the district court enters judgment in favor of a plaintiff" for less than the amount of the settlement offer and not where the plaintiff loses outright. Ibid. (citing Delta Air Lines, Inc. v. August, 450 U. S. 346, 352 (1981)). Because the District Court had not entered judgment in favor of Marx, the court concluded that costs were not allowed under Rule 68(d). 668 F. 3d, at 1182. Nevertheless, the court found that costs were allowed under Rule 54(d)(1), which grants district courts discretion to award costs to prevailing parties unless a federal statute or the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure provide otherwise. Id., at 1178, 1182. After describing the "venerable" presumption that prevailing parties are entitled to costs, id., at 1179, the court concluded that nothing in the text, history, or purpose of §1692k(a)(3) indicated that it was meant to displace Rule 54(d)(1), id., at 1178-1182. Judge Lucero dissented, arguing that "[t]he only sensible reading of [§1692k(a)(3)] is that the district court may only award costs to a defendant" upon finding that the action was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment and that to read it otherwise rendered the phrase "and costs" superfluous. Id., at 1187 (emphasis in original).     We granted certiorari, 566 U. S. ___ (2012), to resolve a conflict among the Circuits regarding whether a prevailing defendant in an FDCPA case may be awarded costs where the lawsuit was not brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment. Compare 668 F. 3d, at 1182 (case below), with Rouse v. Law Offices of Rory Clark, 603 F. 3d 699, 701 (CA9 2010). We now affirm the judgment of the Tenth Circuit.II     As in all statutory construction cases, we " 'assum[e] that the ordinary meaning of [the statutory] language accurately expresses the legislative purpose.' " Hardt v. Reliance Standard Life Ins. Co., 560 U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (slip op., at 8) (quoting Gross v. FBL Financial Services, Inc., 557 U. S. 167, 175 (2009) (alteration in original)). In this case, we must construe both Rule 54(d)(1) and §1692k(a)(3) and assess the relationship between them.A     Rule 54(d)(1) is straightforward. It provides, in relevant part: "Unless a federal statute, these rules, or a court order provides otherwise, costs--other than attorney's fees--should be allowed to the prevailing party."     As the Tenth Circuit correctly recognized, Rule 54(d)(1) codifies a venerable presumption that prevailing parties are entitled to costs.3 Notwithstanding this presumption, the word "should" makes clear that the decision whether to award costs ultimately lies within the sound discretion of the district court. See Taniguchi v. Kan Pacific Saipan, Ltd., 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 4) ("Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d) gives courts the discretion to award costs to prevailing parties"). Rule 54(d)(1) also makes clear, however, that this discretion can be displaced by a federal statute or a Federal Rule of Civil Procedure that "provides otherwise."     A statute "provides otherwise" than Rule 54(d)(1) if it is "contrary" to the Rule. See 10 J. Moore, Moore's Federal Practice §54.101[1][c], p. 54-159 (3d ed. 2012) (hereinafter 10 Moore's). Because the Rule grants district courts discretion to award costs, a statute is contrary to the Rule if it limits that discretion. A statute may limit a court's discretion in several ways, and it need not expressly state that it is displacing Rule 54(d)(1) to do so. For instance, a statute providing that "plaintiffs shall not be liable for costs" is contrary to Rule 54(d)(1) because it precludes a court from awarding costs to prevailing defendants. See, e.g., 7 U. S. C. §18(d)(1) ("The petitioner shall not be liable for costs in the district court"). Similarly, a statute providing that plaintiffs may recover costs only under certain conditions is contrary to Rule 54(d) because it precludes a court from awarding costs to prevailing plaintiffs when those conditions have not been satisfied. See, e.g., 28 U. S. C. §1928 ("[N]o costs shall be included in such judgment, unless the proper disclaimer has been filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office").     Importantly, not all statutes that provide for costs are contrary to Rule 54(d)(1). A statute providing that "the court may award costs to the prevailing party," for example, is not contrary to the Rule because it does not limit a court's discretion. See 10 Moore's §54.101[1][c], at 54-159 ("A number of statutes state simply that the court may award costs in its discretion. Such a provision is not contrary to Rule 54(d)(1) and does not displace the court's discretion under the Rule").     Marx and the United States as amicus curiae suggest that any statute that specifically provides for costs displaces Rule 54(d)(1), regardless of whether it is contrary to the Rule. Brief for Petitioner 17; Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 11-12 (hereinafter Brief for United States). The United States relies on the original 1937 version of Rule 54(d)(1), which provided, " 'Except when express provision therefor is made either in a statute of the United States or in these rules, costs shall be allowed as of course to the prevailing party unless the court otherwise directs.' " Id., at 12 (quoting Rule). Though the Rules Committee updated the language of Rule 54(d)(1) in 2007, the change was "stylistic only." Advisory Committee's Notes, 28 U. S. C. App., p. 734 (2006 ed., Supp. V). Accordingly, the United States asserts that any "express provision" for costs should displace Rule 54(d)(1).     We are not persuaded, however, that the original version of Rule 54(d) should be interpreted as Marx and the United States suggest. The original language was meant to ensure that Rule 54(d) did not displace existing costs provisions that were contrary to the Rule. Under the prior language, statutes that simply permitted a court to award costs did not displace the Rule. See 6 J. Moore, Moore's Federal Practice §54.71[1], p. 54-304 (2d ed. 1996) ("[W]hen permissive language is used [in a statute regarding costs] the district court may, pursuant to Rule 54(d), exercise a sound discretion relative to the allowance of costs"). Rather, statutes had to set forth a standard for awarding costs that was different from Rule 54(d)(1) in order to displace the Rule. See Friedman v. Ganassi, 853 F. 2d 207, 210 (CA3 1988) (holding that 15 U. S. C. §77k(e) is not an "express provision" under Rule 54(d) because it does not provide an "alternative standard" for awarding taxable costs). The original version of Rule 54(d) is consistent with our conclusion that a statute must be contrary to Rule 54(d)(1) in order to displace it.4B     We now turn to whether §1692k(a)(3) is contrary to Rule 54(d)(1). The language of §1692k(a)(3) and the context surrounding it persuade us that it is not.1     The second sentence of §1692k(a)(3) provides: "On a finding by the court that an action under this section was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award to the defendant attorney's fees reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs."5     GRC contends that the statute does not address whether costs may be awarded in this case--where the plaintiff brought the case in good faith--and thus it does not set forth a standard for awarding costs that is contrary to Rule 54(d)(1). In its view, Congress intended §1692k(a)(3) to deter plaintiffs from bringing nuisance lawsuits. It, therefore, expressly provided that when plaintiffs bring an action in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award attorney's fees and costs to the defendant. The statute does address this type of case--i.e., cases in which the plaintiff brings the action in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment. But it is silent where bad faith and purpose of harassment are absent, and silence does not displace the background rule that a court has discretion to award costs.     Marx and the United States take the contrary view. They concede that the language does not expressly limit a court's discretion to award costs under Rule 54(d)(1), Brief for Petitioner 10; Brief for United States 19, but argue that it does so by negative implication. Invoking the expressio unius canon of statutory construction, they contend that by specifying that a court may award attorney's fees and costs when an action is brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, Congress intended to preclude a court from awarding fees and costs when bad faith and purpose of harassment are absent. They further argue that unless §1692k(a)(3) sets forth the exclusive basis on which a court may award costs, the phrase "and costs" would be superfluous. According to this argument, Congress would have had no reason to specify that a court may award costs when a plaintiff brings an action in bad faith if it could have nevertheless awarded costs under Rule 54(d)(1). Finally, the United States argues that §1692k(a)(3) is a more specific cost statute that displaces Rule 54(d)(1)'s more general rule.     The context surrounding §1692k(a)(3) persuades us that GRC's interpretation is correct.2     The argument of Marx and the United States depends critically on whether §1692k(a)(3)'s allowance of costs creates a negative implication that costs are unavailable in any other circumstances. The force of any negative implication, however, depends on context. We have long held that the expressio unius canon does not apply "unless it is fair to suppose that Congress considered the unnamed possibility and meant to say no to it," Barnhart v. Peabody Coal Co., 537 U. S. 149, 168 (2003), and that the canon can be overcome by "contrary indications that adopting a particular rule or statute was probably not meant to signal any exclusion," United States v. Vonn, 535 U. S. 55, 65 (2002). In this case, context persuades us that Congress did not intend §1692k(a)(3) to foreclose courts from awarding costs under Rule 54(d)(1).     First, the background presumptions governing attorney's fees and costs are a highly relevant contextual feature. As already explained, under Rule 54(d)(1) a prevailing party is entitled to recover costs from the losing party unless a federal statute, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, or a court order "provides otherwise." The opposite presumption exists with respect to attorney's fees. Under the "bedrock principle known as the ' "American Rule," ' " "[e]ach litigant pays his own attorney's fees, win or lose, unless a statute or contract provides otherwise." Hardt, 560 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9) (quoting Ruckelshaus v. Sierra Club, 463 U. S. 680, 683 (1983)). Notwithstanding the American Rule, however, we have long recognized that federal courts have inherent power to award attorney's fees in a narrow set of circumstances, including when a party brings an action in bad faith. See Chambers v. NASCO, Inc., 501 U. S. 32, 45-46 (1991) (explaining that a court has inherent power to award attorney's fees to a party whose litigation efforts directly benefit others, to sanction the willful disobedience of a court order, and to sanction a party who has acted in bad faith, vexatiously, wantonly, or for oppressive reasons); Alyeska Pipeline Service Co. v. Wilderness Society, 421 U. S. 240, 257-259 (1975) (same).     It is undisputed that §1692k(a)(3) leaves the background rules for attorney's fees intact. The statute provides that when the plaintiff brings an action in bad faith, the court may award attorney's fees to the defendant. But, as noted, a court has inherent power to award fees based on a litigant's bad faith even without §1692k(a)(3). See Chambers, supra, at 45-46. Because §1692k(a)(3) codifies the background rule for attorney's fees, it is dubious to infer congressional intent to override the background rule with respect to costs. The statute is best read as codifying a court's pre-existing authority to award both attorney's fees and costs.6     Next, the second sentence of §1692k(a)(3) must be understood in light of the sentence that precedes it.7 The first sentence of §1692k(a)(3) provides that defendants who violate the FDCPA are liable for the plaintiff's attorney's fees and costs. The second sentence of §1692k(a)(3) similarly provides that plaintiffs who bring an action in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment may be liable for the defendant's fees and costs.     If Congress had excluded "and costs" in the second sentence, plaintiffs might have argued that the expression of costs in the first sentence and the exclusion of costs in the second meant that defendants could only recover attorney's fees when plaintiffs bring an action in bad faith. By adding "and costs" to the second sentence, Congress foreclosed that argument, thereby removing any doubt that defendants may recover costs as well as attorney's fees when plaintiffs bring suits in bad faith. See Ali v. Federal Bureau of Prisons, 552 U. S. 214, 226 (2008) (explaining that a phrase is not superfluous if used to "remove . . . doubt" about an issue); Fort Stewart Schools v. FLRA, 495 U. S. 641, 646 (1990) (explaining that "technically unnecessary" examples may have been "inserted out of an abundance of caution"). The fact that there might have been a negative implication that costs are precluded, depending on whether Congress included or excluded the phrase "and costs," weighs against giving effect to any implied limitation.     Finally, the language in §1692k(a)(3) sharply contrasts with other statutes in which Congress has placed conditions on awarding costs to prevailing defendants. See, e.g., 28 U. S. C. §1928 ("[N]o costs shall be included in such judgment, unless the proper disclaimer has been filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office prior to the commencement of the action" (emphasis added)); 42 U. S. C. §1988(b) ("[I]n any action brought against a judicial officer . . . such officer shall not be held liable for any costs . . . unless such action was clearly in excess of such officer's jurisdiction" (emphasis added)).     Although Congress need not use explicit language to limit a court's discretion under Rule 54(d)(1), its use of explicit language in other statutes cautions against inferring a limitation in §1692k(a)(3). These statutes confirm that Congress knows how to limit a court's discretion under Rule 54(d)(1) when it so desires. See Small v. United States, 544 U. S. 385, 398 (2005) (Thomas, J., dissenting) (explaining that "Congress' explicit use of [language] in other provisions shows that it specifies such restrictions when it wants to do so"). Had Congress intended the second sentence of §1692k(a)(3) to displace Rule 54(d)(1), it could have easily done so by using the word "only" before setting forth the condition "[o]n a finding by the court that an action . . . was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment . . . ."83     As the above discussion suggests, we also are not persuaded by Marx's objection that our interpretation renders the phrase "and costs" superfluous. As noted, supra, at 11, the phrase "and costs" would not be superfluous if Congress included it to remove doubt that defendants may recover costs when plaintiffs bring suits in bad faith. But even assuming that our interpretation renders the phrase "and costs" superfluous, that would not alter our conclusion. The canon against surplusage is not an absolute rule, see Arlington Central School Dist. Bd. of Ed. v. Murphy, 548 U. S. 291, 299, n. 1 (2006) ("While it is generally presumed that statutes do not contain surplusage, instances of surplusage are not unknown"); Connecticut Nat. Bank v. Germain, 503 U. S. 249, 253 (1992) ("Redundancies across statutes are not unusual events in drafting . . . "), and it has considerably less force in this case.     First, the canon against surplusage "assists only where a competing interpretation gives effect to every clause and word of a statute." Microsoft Corp. v. i4i Ltd. Partnership, 564 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 12) (internal quotation marks omitted). But, in this case, no interpretation of §1692k(a)(3) gives effect to every word. Both Marx and the United States admit that a court has inherent power to award attorney's fees to a defendant when the plaintiff brings an action in bad faith. Because there was, consequently, no need for Congress to specify that courts have this power, §1692k(a)(3) is superfluous insofar as it addresses attorney's fees. In light of this redundancy, we are not overly concerned that the reference to costs may be redundant as well.     Second, redundancy is "hardly unusual" in statutes addressing costs. See id., at ___ (slip op., at 13). Numerous statutes overlap with Rule 54(d)(1). See, e.g., 12 U. S. C. §2607(d)(5) ("[T]he court may award to the prevailing party the court costs of the action"); §5565(b) (2006 ed., Supp. V) ("the [Consumer Financial Protection] Bureau . . . may recover its costs in connection with prosecuting such action if [it] . . . is the prevailing party in the action"); 15 U. S. C. §6104(d) (2006 ed.) ("The court . . . may award costs of suit and reasonable fees for attorneys and expert witnesses to the prevailing party"); §7706(f)(4) ("In the case of any successful action . . . the court, in its discretion, may award the costs of the action"); §7805(b)(3) ("[T]he court may award to the prevailing party costs"); §8131(2) (2006 ed., Supp. V) ("The court may also, in its discretion, award costs and attorneys fees to the prevailing party"); 29 U. S. C. §431(c) (2006 ed.) ("The court . . . may, in its discretion . . . allow a reasonable attorney's fee to be paid by the defendant, and costs of the action"); 42 U. S. C. §3612(p) ("[T]he court . . . in its discretion, may allow the prevailing party . . . a reasonable attorney's fee and costs"); §3613(c)(2) ("[T]he court, in its discretion, may allow the prevailing party . . . a reasonable attorney's fee and costs"); 47 U. S. C. §551(f)(2) ("[T]he court may award . . . other litigation costs reasonably incurred").     Finally, the canon against surplusage is strongest when an interpretation would render superfluous another part of the same statutory scheme. Cf. United States v. Jicarilla Apache Nation, 564 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 22) (" 'As our cases have noted in the past, we are hesitant to adopt an interpretation of a congressional enactment which renders superfluous another portion of that same law' " (quoting Mackey v. Lanier Collection Agency & Service, Inc., 486 U. S. 825, 837 (1988))). Because §1692k(a)(3) is not part of Rule 54(d)(1), the force of this canon is diminished.4     Lastly, the United States contends that §1692k(a)(3) "establishes explicit cost-shifting standards that displace Rule 54(d)(1)'s more general default standard." Brief for United States 17; see also EC Term of Years Trust v. United States, 550 U. S. 429, 433 (2007) (" '[A] precisely drawn, detailed statute pre-empts more general remedies' " (quoting Brown v. GSA, 425 U. S. 820, 834 (1976))). Were we to accept the argument that §1692k(a)(3) has a negative implication, this argument might be persuasive. But the context of §1692k(a)(3) indicates that Congress was simply confirming the background rule that courts may award to defendants attorney's fees and costs when the plaintiff brings an action in bad faith. The statute speaks to one type of case--the case of the bad-faith and harassing plaintiff. Because Marx did not bring this suit in bad faith, this case does not "fal[l] within the ambit of the more specific provision." Brief for United States 13; see also RadLAX Gateway Hotel, LLC v. Amalgamated Bank, 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 9) ("When the conduct at issue falls within the scope of both provisions, the specific presumptively governs . . ." (emphasis in original)).9 Accordingly, this canon is inapplicable.III     Because we conclude that the second sentence of §1692k(a)(3) is not contrary to Rule 54(d)(1), and, thus, does not displace a district court's discretion to award costs under the Rule, we need not address GRC's alternative argument that costs were required under Rule 68.     The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.It is so ordered.Sotomayor, J., dissenting?568 U. S. ____ (2013)No. 11-1175OLIVEA MARX, PETITIONER v. GENERAL REVENUE CORPORATIONon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the tenth circuit[February 26, 2013]     Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Kagan joins, dissenting.     Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d)(1) is a default standard that grants district courts discretion to award litigation costs to a prevailing party. This default, however, gives way when a federal statute includes a costs provision that "provides otherwise." The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA), 91 Stat. 874, 15 U. S. C. §1692 et seq., contains a costs provision, §1692k(a)(3), and it "provides otherwise." That is apparent from the statute's plain language, which limits a court's discretion to award costs to prevailing defendants to cases "brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment." In reaching the opposite conclusion, the Court ignores the plain meaning of both the FDCPA and Rule 54(d)(1) and renders the statutory language at issue in this case meaningless. I respectfully dissent.I     The majority correctly recognizes, see ante, at 4, the fundamental principle of statutory construction that we begin "with the language of the statute itself." United States v. Ron Pair Enterprises, Inc., 489 U. S. 235, 241 (1989); Ingalls Shipbuilding, Inc. v. Director, Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, 519 U. S. 248, 255 (1997); Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S. 470, 485 (1917). We presume that Congress "means in a statute what it says there," Connecticut Nat. Bank v. Germain, 503 U. S. 249, 254 (1992), and "where . . . the statute's language is plain, the sole function of the courts is to enforce it according to its terms." Ron Pair, 489 U. S., at 241 (internal quotation marks omitted). This basic tenet is the appropriate starting point for interpreting both Rule 54(d)(1) and §1692k(a)(3). After invoking this principle, however, the majority casts it aside entirely in interpreting the statute and the Rule.A     Rule 54(d)(1) states, as relevant here, that "[u]nless a federal statute . . . provides otherwise, costs--other than attorney's fees--should be allowed to the prevailing party." The first question is what it means for a statute to "provid[e] otherwise" than Rule 54(d)(1).     Because the phrase "provides otherwise" is not defined in the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, we look to its ordinary meaning. Asgrow Seed Co. v. Winterboer, 513 U. S. 179, 187 (1995). In common usage, to "provide otherwise" means to "make a . . . stipulation" that is "differen[t]." Webster's Third New International Dictionary 1598, 1827 (2002) (Webster's Third) (defining "provide" and "otherwise," respectively); see Random House Dictionary of the English Language 1372, 1556 (2d ed. 1987) (Random House) ("to arrange for or stipulate" "[i]n another manner"); 10 Oxford English Dictionary 984 (2d ed. 1989) (Oxford Dictionary); 12 id., at 713 ("to stipulate" "[i]n another way . . . ; in a different manner"). This reading of the plain text is confirmed by the original 1937 codification of the Rule, which made clear that any "express provision" relating to costs in a statute is sufficient to displace the default.1     Accordingly, to displace Rule 54(d)(1), a federal statute need only address costs in a way different from, but not necessarily inconsistent with, the default.2 The reason is straightforward. If Congress has enacted a provision with respect to costs in a statute, there is no longer any need for the default, so it gives way. This design of the Rule is sensible, because many statutes contain specific costs provisions. 10 Moore's Federal Practice §54.101[1][c], p. 54-160 (3d ed. 2012) (noting that such statutes "are far too numerous to list comprehensively"). Rule 54(d)(1) is therefore consistent with the canon of statutory interpretation that "a precisely drawn, detailed statute pre-empts more general remedies." Hinck v. United States, 550 U. S. 501, 506 (2007); Crawford Fitting Co. v. J. T. Gibbons, Inc., 482 U. S. 437, 445 (1987); United States v. Erika, Inc., 456 U. S. 201, 208 (1982).     While purporting to interpret the "ordinary meaning" of Rule 54(d)(1), ante, at 4, the majority immediately abandons the ordinary meaning. The majority concludes that a statute provides otherwise for purposes of Rule 54(d)(1) only if it is "contrary" to the default. Ante, at 5. But the majority does not cite even a single dictionary definition in support of that reading, despite the oft-cited principle that a definition widely reflected in dictionaries generally governs over other possible meanings.3 Lacking any dictionary support for its interpretation, the majority relies instead upon a treatise published nearly 60 years after the Rule's adoption. See ante, 6-7 (citing 6 J. Moore, Moore's Federal Practice, p. 54-304 (2d ed. 1996)).     "Otherwise" means "different." Webster's Third 1518; see supra, at 2-3. The majority's preferred term of art, "contrary," sets a higher bar; it signifies "the opposite," or "a proposition, fact, or condition incompatible with another." Webster's Third 495 (emphasis added). See also American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language 399 (5th ed. 2011) ("Opposed, as in character or purpose"); 3 Oxford Dictionary 844 ("Opposed in nature or tendency; diametrically different, extremely unlike"); Random House 442 ("[O]pposite in nature or character; diametrically or mutually opposed").     Indeed, the majority's reading does not square with the everyday meaning of "otherwise." Consider, for example, a medication labeled with the instruction, "take twice a day unless otherwise directed." If a doctor advises her patient to take the medicine "in the morning," the patient would understand her to mean that he should take the medicine once a day, each morning. Although the instruction to take the medication in the morning is not incompatible with taking it twice a day--it could be taken in the evening as well--an ordinary English speaker would interpret "otherwise" to mean that the doctor's more specific instructions entirely supersede what is printed on the bottle. Rule 54(d)(1) is just the same: Its default is supplanted whenever Congress provides more specific instructions, not only when they are diametrically opposed to it.B1     Thus, the straightforward question in this case is whether §1692k(a)(3) implements a "different" standard with respect to costs than Rule 54(d)(1), and so "provides otherwise." As relevant, §1692k(a)(3) states: "On a finding by the court that an action under this section was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award to the defendant attorney's fees reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs."     It is readily apparent that this provision is different from the default of Rule 54(d)(1). In §1692k(a)(3), Congress described with specificity a single circumstance in which costs may be awarded. Far from merely restating a district court's discretion to award costs, this provision imposes a prerequisite to the exercise of that discretion: a finding by the court that an action was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment.     Because the text is plain, there is no need to proceed any further. Even so, relevant canons of statutory interpretation lend added support to reading §1692k(a)(3) as having a negative implication. That reading accords with the expressio unius, exclusio alterius canon, which instructs that when Congress includes one possibility in a statute, it excludes another by implication. See Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Echazabal, 536 U. S. 73, 80-81 (2002). This rule reinforces what the text makes clear. By limiting a court's discretion to award costs to cases brought in bad faith or for the purpose of harassment, Congress foreclosed the award of costs in other circumstances.4     Petitioner's interpretation of the statute is also strongly favored by the rule that statutes should be read to avoid superfluity. Under this "most basic of interpretative canons, . . . ' "[a] statute should be constructed so that effect is given to all of its provisions, so that no part will be inoperative or superfluous, void or insignificant." ' " Corley v. United States, 556 U. S. 303, 314 (2009) (quoting Hibbs v. Winn, 542 U. S. 88, 101 (2004)). Respondent's reading, as it mostly acknowledges, renders the entire sentence meaningless because it reiterates powers that federal courts already possess with respect to both costs and attorney's fees. See Brief for Respondent 22-24.     The majority rejects this argument, citing the rule that this canon " 'assists only where a competing interpretation gives effect to every clause and word of a statute.' " Ante, at 13 (quoting Microsoft Corp. v. i4i Ltd. Partnership, 564 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 12)). In its view, neither of the available interpretations can eliminate superfluity because the attorney's fees provision is redundant under any reading. Ante, at 13. But the canon against superfluity surely counsels against an interpretation that renders the entire provision at issue superfluous when a competing interpretation would at least render part of the provision meaningful. Nor does the majority's observation that redundancy is " 'hardly unusual,' " ante, at 14, in provisions relating to costs make the canon inapplicable. While Congress sometimes drafts redundant language with respect to costs, Congress did not do so in §1692(a)(3).5 Instead, it drafted specific language that permits a court to award costs only on the satisfaction of a condition.     Interpreting §1692k(1)(3) as having a negative implication is consistent with our construction of another statute that includes similar language. In Cooper Industries, Inc. v. Aviall Services, Inc., 543 U. S. 157, 166 (2004) (opinion for the Court by Thomas, J.), we considered a provision in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U. S. C. §9613(f)(1) that provided: "[a]ny person may seek contribution . . . during . . . any civil action under section 9606 of this title" (emphasis added). We rejected the argument that the word "may" indicated that "during a civil action" was one but not the exclusive circumstance in which the right of contribution was available. 543 U. S., at 166. We instead adopted the natural reading of the text, holding that a party's ability to seek contribution was limited by the phrase "during any civil action" and that contribution was only available while a lawsuit is pending. Ibid. The same logic applies here, because §1692k(a)(3) imposes a closely analogous condition on a court's discretion to award costs.2      The first sentence of §1692k(a)(3) underscores that Congress implemented a different rule than Rule 54(d)(1). That sentence provides that a debt collector who violates the FDCPA is "liable to" a prevailing plaintiff for "the costs of the action, together with a reasonable attorney's fee as determined by the court." This sentence makes a losing defendant always liable for the "costs of the action," which is a clear departure from the Rule 54(d)(1) discretionary default. Cf. Taniguchi v. Kan Pacific Saipan, Ltd., 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 4). Because Congress deviated from Rule 54(d)(1) in the first sentence of §1692k(a)(3), the most reasonable reading is that the sentence that immediately follows, which states the rule for prevailing defendants, takes a similar path.     The majority believes that its reading of the costs provision follows from the first sentence as well, but for a different reason. Ante, at 11-12. It suggests that if Congress had not included costs in the second sentence, a plaintiff might have been able to argue that the inclusion of costs in the first sentence and the exclusion of costs in the second indicated that defendants could recover only fees when an action is brought in bad faith. The majority then speculates that Congress included costs in the second sentence to foreclose that argument.     The text of the previous sentence makes plain, however, that the second sentence departs from the Rule 54(d)(1) default, and the majority offers no evidence in support of its supposition that Congress intended a different meaning.6 Moreover, I see no basis for invoking potential confusion or indulging in speculation to explain away the words Congress chose. Ante, at 11-12. Some Members of the majority have expressed doubt about the relevance of legislative history, claiming that relying upon it is analogous to "entering a crowded cocktail party and looking . . . for one's friends." Conroy v. Aniskoff, 507 U. S. 511, 519 (1993) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment). But speculating whole cloth about congressional intent, as the majority does, is surely more problematic. The majority is saved the trouble of having to look for its friends at the party; it simply invites them.II     Reduced to its essence, the majority's analysis turns on reading §1692k(a)(3) in the context of what it calls the "venerable presumption" that prevailing parties are entitled to costs. See ante, at 4. Even if it were appropriate to consider a background presumption rather than reading the plain text at issue, the majority's characterization of the presumption is at best incomplete.     First, the Court's suggestion that the presumption regarding costs is a "venerable" one in American law is an overstatement. Ibid. It is true, as the majority points out, that prior to the federal rules, "prevailing parties were entitled to costs as of right in actions at law while courts had discretion to award costs in equity proceedings." Ante, at 4, n. 3; see Wright & Miller §2665, at 199. But the doctrine governing costs at law carved out an important exception for statutory provisions that set forth a different rule.7 Where there was such a statute, courts would simply apply it. In its assessment of the background principles underlying its approach, the majority glosses over the longstanding expectation that Congress often enacts different rules with respect to costs, and when it does, these rules govern.     Second, Rule 54(d)(1) embraces this long-recognized exception because it specifies that a statute can displace its default rule. To repeat, Rule 54(d)(1) merely enacts a default standard that applies unless, among other things, a statute or rule "provides otherwise." Here, for the reasons explained, Congress enacted exactly such a statute. That is clear from the text, because §1692k(a)(3) conditions the award of costs on the satisfaction of a condition, and because the previous sentence of the same provision breaks from the default.*??*??*     The plain text of Rule 54(d)(1) and §1692k(a)(3) dictates the result in this case. Accordingly, I would reverse the Tenth Circuit and hold that §1692k(a)(3) "provides otherwise" than Rule 54(d)(1), such that a district court cannot award costs to a prevailing defendant in an FDCPA action except upon a showing that the action was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment. I respectfully dissent.FOOTNOTESConsumer complaints about abuses of telephone technology--for example, computerized calls to private homes--prompted Congress to pass the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (TCPA or Act), 47 U. S. C. §227. Congress determined that federal legislation was needed because telemarketers, by operating interstate, were escaping state-law prohibitions on intrusive nuisance calls. The Act bans certain invasive telemarketing practices and directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to prescribe implementing regulations. It authorizes States to bring civil actions to enjoin prohibited practices and recover damages on their residents' behalf, 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(1) (Supp. 2011), and provides that jurisdiction over these state-initiated suits lies exclusively in the U. S. district courts, §227(g)(2). It also permits a private person to seek redress for violations of the Act or regulations "in an appropriate court of [a] State," "if [such an action is] otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of [that] State." 47 U. S. C. §§227(b)(3), (c)(5).          Petitioner Mims filed a damages action in Federal District Court, alleging that respondent Arrow, seeking to collect a debt, violated the TCPA by repeatedly using an automatic telephone dialing system or prerecorded or artificial voice to call Mims's cellular phone without his consent. Mims invoked the court's "federal question" jurisdiction, i.e., its authority to adjudicate claims "arising under the . . . laws . . . of the United States," 28 U. S. C. §1331. The District Court, affirmed by the Eleventh Circuit, dismissed Mims's complaint for want of subject-matter jurisdiction, concluding that the TCPA had vested jurisdiction over private actions exclusively in state courts.Held: The TCPA's permissive grant of jurisdiction to state courts does not deprive the U. S. district courts of federal-question jurisdiction over private TCPA suits. Pp. 7-18.     (a) Because federal law creates the right of action and provides the rules of decision, Mims's TCPA claim, in §1331's words, plainly "aris[es] under" the "laws . . . of the United States." Arrow agrees that this action arises under federal law, but urges that Congress vested exclusive adjudicatory authority over private TCPA actions in state courts. In cases "arising under" federal law, there is a presumption of concurrent state-court jurisdiction, rebuttable if "Congress affirmatively ousts the state courts of jurisdiction over a particular federal claim." Tafflin v. Levitt, 493 U. S. 455, 458-459. Arrow acknowledges the presumption, but maintains that §1331 creates no converse presumption in favor of federal-court jurisdiction. Instead, Arrow urges, the TCPA, a later, more specific statute, displaces §1331, an earlier, more general prescription.     Section 1331 is not swept away so easily. The principle that district courts possess federal-question jurisdiction under §1331 when federal law creates a private right of action and furnishes the substantive rules of decision endures unless Congress divests federal courts of their §1331 adjudicatory authority. See, e.g., Verizon Md. Inc. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of Md., 535 U. S. 635, 642. Accordingly, the District Court retains §1331 jurisdiction over Mims's complaint unless the TCPA, expressly or by fair implication, excludes federal-court adjudication. See id., at 644. Pp. 7-10.     (b) Arrow's arguments do not persuade this Court that Congress eliminated §1331 jurisdiction over private TCPA actions. Title 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3)'s language may be state-court oriented, but "the grant of jurisdiction to one court does not, of itself, imply that the jurisdiction is to be exclusive," United States v. Bank of New York & Trust Co., 296 U. S. 463, 479. Nothing in §227(b)(3)'s permissive language makes state-court jurisdiction exclusive, or otherwise purports to oust federal courts of their §1331 jurisdiction. The provision does not state that a private plaintiff may bring a TCPA action "only" or "exclusively" in state court. In contrast, 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(2) (Supp. 2011) vests "exclusive jurisdiction" over state-initiated TCPA suits in the federal courts. Section 227(g)(2)'s exclusivity prescription "reinforce[s] the conclusion that [47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3)'s] silence . . . leaves the jurisdictional grant of §1331 untouched. For where otherwise applicable jurisdiction was meant to be excluded, it was excluded expressly." Verizon Md., 535 U. S., at 644.     Arrow argues that Congress had no reason to provide for a private action "in an appropriate [state] court," §227(b)(3), if it did not mean to make the state forum exclusive, for state courts would have concurrent jurisdiction even if Congress had said nothing at all. But, as already noted, Congress had simultaneously made federal-court jurisdiction exclusive in TCPA enforcement actions brought by state authorities, see 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(2) (Supp. 2011), and may simply have wanted to avoid any argument that federal jurisdiction was also exclusive for private actions. Moreover, by providing that private actions may be brought in state court "if otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of [the] State," 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3), Congress arguably gave States leeway they would otherwise lack to decide whether to entertain TCPA claims.     Arrow further asserts that making state-court jurisdiction over §227(b)(3) claims exclusive serves Congress' objective of enabling States to control telemarketers whose interstate operations evaded state law. Even so, jurisdiction conferred by 28 U. S. C. §1331 should hold firm against "mere implication flowing from subsequent legislation." Colorado River Water Conservation Dist. v. United States, 424 U. S. 800, 808, 809, n. 15. Furthermore, had Congress sought only to fill a gap in the States' enforcement capabilities, it could have provided that out-of-state telemarketing calls directed into a State would be subject to the receiving State's laws. Instead, Congress enacted detailed, uniform, federal substantive prescriptions and provided for a regulatory regime administered by a federal agency.     Arrow's reliance on a statement by Senator Hollings, the TCPA's sponsor, is misplaced. The remarks nowhere mention federal-court jurisdiction or otherwise suggest that 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3) is intended to divest federal courts of authority over TCPA claims. Even if Hollings and other TCPA supporters expected private actions to proceed solely in state courts, their expectation would not control this Court's judgment on §1331's compass. Arrow's arguments that federal courts will be inundated by $500-per-violation TCPA claims or that defendants could use federal-court removal to force small-claims-court plaintiffs to abandon suit seem more imaginary than real. Pp. 10-18.421 Fed. Appx. 920, reversed and remanded.     Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Opinion of the Court?565 U. S. ____ (2012)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 10-1195MARCUS D. MIMS, PETITIONER v. ARROW FINANCIAL SERVICES, LLCon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit[January 18, 2012]     Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.     This case concerns enforcement, through private suits, of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (TCPA or Act), 47 U. S. C. §227. Voluminous consumer complaints about abuses of telephone technology--for example, computerized calls dispatched to private homes--prompted Congress to pass the TCPA. Congress determined that federal legislation was needed because telemarketers, by operating interstate, were escaping state-law prohibitions on intrusive nuisance calls. The Act bans certain practices invasive of privacy and directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC or Commission) to prescribe implementing regulations. It authorizes States to bring civil actions to enjoin prohibited practices and to recover damages on their residents' behalf. The Commission must be notified of such suits and may intervene in them. Jurisdiction over state-initiated TCPA suits, Congress provided, lies exclusively in the U. S. district courts. Congress also provided for civil actions by private parties seeking redress for violations of the TCPA or of the Commission's implementing regulations.     Petitioner Marcus D. Mims, complaining of multiple violations of the Act by respondent Arrow Financial Services, LLC (Arrow), a debt-collection agency, commenced an action for damages against Arrow in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. Mims invoked the court's "federal question" jurisdiction, i.e., its authority to adjudicate claims "arising under the . . . laws . . . of the United States," 28 U. S. C. §1331. The District Court, affirmed by the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, dismissed Mims's complaint for want of subject-matter jurisdiction. Both courts relied on Congress' specification, in the TCPA, that a private person may seek redress for violations of the Act (or of the Commission's regulations thereunder) "in an appropriate court of [a] State," "if [such an action is] otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of [that] State." 47 U. S. C. §§227(b)(3), (c)(5).     The question presented is whether Congress' provision for private actions to enforce the TCPA renders state courts the exclusive arbiters of such actions. We have long recognized that "[a] suit arises under the law that creates the cause of action." American Well Works Co. v. Layne & Bowler Co., 241 U. S. 257, 260 (1916). Beyond doubt, the TCPA is a federal law that both creates the claim Mims has brought and supplies the substantive rules that will govern the case. We find no convincing reason to read into the TCPA's permissive grant of jurisdiction to state courts any barrier to the U. S. district courts' exercise of the general federal-question jurisdiction they have possessed since 1875. See Act of Mar. 3, 1875, §1, 18 Stat. 470; 13D C. Wright, A. Miller, E. Cooper, & R. Freer, Federal Practice and Procedure §3561, p. 163 (3d ed. 2008) (hereinafter Wright & Miller). We hold, therefore, that federal and state courts have concurrent jurisdiction over private suits arising under the TCPA.IA     In enacting the TCPA, Congress made several findings relevant here. "Unrestricted telemarketing," Congress determined, "can be an intrusive invasion of privacy." TCPA, 105 Stat. 2394, note following 47 U. S. C. §227 (Congressional Findings) (internal quotation marks omitted). In particular, Congress reported, "[m]any consumers are outraged over the proliferation of intrusive, nuisance [telemarketing] calls to their homes." Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). "[A]utomated or prerecorded telephone calls" made to private residences, Congress found, were rightly regarded by recipients as "an invasion of privacy." Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). Although over half the States had enacted statutes restricting telemarketing, Congress believed that federal law was needed because "telemarketers [could] evade [state-law] prohibitions through interstate operations." Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). See also S. Rep. No. 102-178, p. 3 (1991) ("[B]ecause States do not have jurisdiction over interstate calls[,] [m]any States have expressed a desire for Federal legislation . . . .").1     Subject to exceptions not pertinent here, the TCPA principally outlaws four practices. First, the Act makes it unlawful to use an automatic telephone dialing system or an artificial or prerecorded voice message, without the prior express consent of the called party, to call any emergency telephone line, hospital patient, pager, cellular telephone, or other service for which the receiver is charged for the call. See 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(1)(A). Sec-ond, the TCPA forbids using artificial or prerecorded voice messages to call residential telephone lines without prior express consent. §227(b)(1)(B). Third, the Act proscribes sending unsolicited advertisements to fax machines. §227(b)(1)(C). Fourth, it bans using automatic telephone dialing systems to engage two or more of a business' telephone lines simultaneously. §227(b)(1)(D).2     The TCPA delegates authority to the FCC to ban artificial and prerecorded voice calls to businesses, §227(b)(2)(A), and to exempt particular types of calls from the law's requirements, §§227(b)(2)(B), (C). The Act also directs the FCC to prescribe regulations to protect the privacy of residential telephone subscribers, possibly through the creation of a national "do not call" system. §227(c).3     Congress provided complementary means of enforcing the Act. State Attorneys General may "bring a civil action on behalf of [State] residents," if the Attorney General "has reason to believe that any person has engaged . . . in a pattern or practice" of violating the TCPA or FCC regulations thereunder. 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(1) (Supp. 2011). "The district courts of the United States . . . have exclusive jurisdiction" over all TCPA actions brought by State Attorneys General. §227(g)(2). The Commission may intervene in such suits. §227(g)(3).4     Title 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3), captioned "Private right of action," provides:     "A person or entity may, if otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of a State, bring in an appropriate court of that State--     "(A) an action based on a violation of this subsection or the regulations prescribed under this subsection to enjoin such violation,     "(B) an action to recover for actual monetary loss from such a violation, or to receive $500 in damages for each such violation, whichever is greater, or     "(C) both such actions."If the court finds that the defendant willfully or knowingly violated this subsection or the regulations prescribed under this subsection, the court may, in its discretion, increase the amount of the award to an amount equal to not more than 3 times the amount available under subparagraph (B) of this paragraph."A similar provision authorizes a private right of action for a violation of the FCC's implementing regulations.5B     Mims, a Florida resident, alleged that Arrow, seeking to collect a debt, repeatedly used an automatic telephone dialing system or prerecorded or artificial voice to call Mims's cellular phone without his consent. Commencing suit in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida, Mims charged that Arrow "willfully or knowingly violated the TCPA." App. 14. He sought declaratory relief, a permanent injunction, and damages. Id., at 18-19.     The District Court held that it lacked subject-matter jurisdiction over Mims's TCPA claim. Under Eleventh Circuit precedent, the District Court explained, federal-question jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. §1331 was unavailable "because Congress vested jurisdiction over [private actions under] the TCPA exclusively in state courts." Civ. No. 09-22347 (SD Fla., Apr. 1, 2010), App. to Pet. for Cert. 4a-5a (citing Nicholson v. Hooters of Augusta, Inc., 136 F. 3d 1287 (CA11 1998)). Adhering to Circuit precedent, the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit affirmed. 421 Fed. Appx. 920, 921 (2011) (quoting Nicholson, 136 F. 3d, at 1287-1288 ("Congress granted state courts exclusive jurisdiction over private actions under the [TCPA].")).     We granted certiorari, 564 U. S. ___ (2011), to resolve a split among the Circuits as to whether Congress granted state courts exclusive jurisdiction over private actions brought under the TCPA. Compare Murphey v. Lanier, 204 F. 3d 911, 915 (CA9 2000) (U. S. district courts lack federal-question jurisdiction over private TCPA actions), ErieNet, Inc. v. Velocity Net, Inc., 156 F. 3d 513, 519 (CA3 1998) (same), Foxhall Realty Law Offices, Inc. v. Telecommunications Premium Servs., Ltd., 156 F. 3d 432, 434 (CA2 1998) (same), Nicholson, 136 F. 3d, at 1287-1288, Chair King, Inc. v. Houston Cellular Corp., 131 F. 3d 507, 514 (CA5 1997) (same), and International Science & Technology Inst. v. Inacom Communications, Inc., 106 F. 3d 1146, 1158 (CA4 1997) (same), with Charvat v. EchoStar Satellite, LLC, 630 F. 3d 459, 463-465 (CA6 2010) (U. S. district courts have federal-question jurisdiction over private TCPA actions), Brill v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc., 427 F. 3d 446, 447 (CA7 2005) (same), and ErieNet, 156 F. 3d, at 521 (Alito, J., dissenting) (same). We now hold that Congress did not deprive federal courts of federal-question jurisdiction over private TCPA suits.II     Federal courts, though "courts of limited jurisdiction," Kokkonen v. Guardian Life Ins. Co. of America, 511 U. S. 375, 377 (1994), in the main "have no more right to decline the exercise of jurisdiction which is given, then to usurp that which is not given." Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264 (1821). Congress granted federal courts general federal-question jurisdiction in 1875. See Act of Mar. 3, 1875, §1, 18 Stat. 470.6 As now codified, the law provides: "The district courts shall have original jurisdiction of all civil actions arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States." 28 U. S. C. §1331. The statute originally included an amount-in-controversy requirement, set at $500. See Act of Mar. 3, 1875, §1, 18 Stat. 470. Recognizing the responsibility of federal courts to decide claims, large or small, arising under federal law, Congress in 1980 eliminated the amount-in-controversy requirement in federal-question (but not diversity) cases. See Federal Question Jurisdictional Amendments Act of 1980, 94 Stat. 2369 (amending 28 U. S. C. §1331). See also H. R. Rep. No. 96-1461, p. 1 (1980).7 Apart from deletion of the amount-in-controversy requirement, the general federal-question provision has remained essentially unchanged since 1875. See 13D Wright & Miller 163.     Because federal law creates the right of action and provides the rules of decision, Mims's TCPA claim, in 28 U. S. C. §1331's words, plainly "aris[es] under" the "laws . . . of the United States." As already noted, supra, at 2, "[a] suit arises under the law that creates the cause of action." American Well Works, 241 U. S., at 260. Although courts have described this formulation as "more useful for inclusion than for . . . exclusion," Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Thompson, 478 U. S. 804, 809, n. 5 (1986) (quoting T. B. Harms Co. v. Eliscu, 339 F. 2d 823, 827 (CA2 1964)), there is no serious debate that a federally created claim for relief is generally a "sufficient condition for federal-question jurisdiction." Grable & Sons Metal Products, Inc. v. Darue Engineering & Mfg., 545 U. S. 308, 317 (2005).8     Arrow agrees that this action arises under federal law, see Tr. of Oral Arg. 27, but urges that Congress vested exclusive adjudicatory authority over private TCPA actions in state courts. In cases "arising under" federal law, we note, there is a "deeply rooted presumption in favor of concurrent state court jurisdiction," rebuttable if "Congress affirmatively ousts the state courts of jurisdiction over a particular federal claim." Tafflin v. Levitt, 493 U. S. 455, 458-459 (1990). E.g., 28 U. S. C. §1333 ("The district courts shall have original jurisdiction, exclusive of the courts of the States, of: (1) Any civil case of admiralty or maritime jurisdiction . . . ."). The presumption of concurrent state-court jurisdiction, we have recognized, can be overcome "by an explicit statutory directive, by unmistakable implication from legislative history, or by a clear incompatibility between state-court jurisdiction and federal interests." Gulf Offshore Co. v. Mobil Oil Corp., 453 U. S. 473, 478 (1981).     Arrow readily acknowledges the presumption of concurrent state-court jurisdiction, but maintains that 28 U. S. C. §1331 creates no converse presumption in favor of federal-court jurisdiction. Instead, Arrow urges, the TCPA, a later, more specific statute, displaces §1331, an earlier, more general prescription. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 28-29; Brief for Respondent 31.     Section 1331, our decisions indicate, is not swept away so easily. As stated earlier, see supra, at 8, when federal law creates a private right of action and furnishes the substantive rules of decision, the claim arises under federal law, and district courts possess federal-question jurisdiction under §1331.9 That principle endures unless Congress divests federal courts of their §1331 adjudicatory authority. See, e.g., Verizon Md. Inc. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of Md., 535 U. S. 635, 642 (2002) (Nothing in 47 U. S. C. §252(e)(6) "divest[s] the district courts of their authority under 28 U. S. C. §1331 to review the [state agency's] order for compliance with federal law."); K mart Corp. v. Cartier, Inc., 485 U. S. 176, 182-183 (1988) ("The District Court would be divested of [§1331] jurisdiction . . . if this action fell within one of several specific grants of exclusive jurisdiction to the Court of International Trade [under 28 U. S. C. §1581(a) or §1581(i)(3)].").     "[D]ivestment of district court jurisdiction" should be found no more readily than "divestmen[t] of state court jurisdiction," given "the longstanding and explicit grant of federal question jurisdiction in 28 U. S. C. §1331." ErieNet, 156 F. 3d, at 523 (Alito, J., dissenting); see Gonell, Note, Statutory Interpretation of Federal Jurisdictional Statutes: Jurisdiction of the Private Right of Action under the TCPA, 66 Ford. L. Rev. 1895, 1929-1930 (1998). Accordingly, the District Court retains §1331 jurisdiction over Mims's complaint unless the TCPA, expressly or by fair implication, excludes federal-court adjudication. See Verizon Md., 535 U. S., at 644; Gonell, supra, at 1929 (Jurisdiction over private TCPA actions "is proper under §1331 unless Congress enacted a partial repeal of §1331 in the TCPA.").III     Arrow's arguments do not persuade us that Congress has eliminated §1331 jurisdiction over private actions under the TCPA.     The language of the TCPA--"A person or entity may, if otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of a State, bring [an action] in an appropriate court of that State," 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3)--Arrow asserts, is uniquely state-court oriented. See Brief for Respondent 13. That may be, but "[i]t is a general rule that the grant of jurisdiction to one court does not, of itself, imply that the jurisdiction is to be exclusive." United States v. Bank of New York & Trust Co., 296 U. S. 463, 479 (1936).     Nothing in the permissive language of §227(b)(3) makes state-court jurisdiction exclusive, or otherwise purports to oust federal courts of their 28 U. S. C. §1331 jurisdiction over federal claims. See, e.g., Verizon Md., 535 U. S., at 643 ("[N]othing in 47 U. S. C. §252(e)(6) purports to strip [§1331] jurisdiction."). Cf. Yellow Freight System, Inc. v. Donnelly, 494 U. S. 820, 823 (1990) (Title VII's language--"[e]ach United States district court . . . shall have jurisdiction of actions brought under this subchapter," 42 U. S. C. §2000e-5(f)(3)--does not "ous[t] state courts of their presumptive jurisdiction." (internal quotation marks omitted)). Congress may indeed provide a track for a federal claim exclusive of §1331. See, e.g., 42 U. S. C. §405(h) ("No action . . . shall be brought under [§1331] to recover on any claim arising under [Title II of the Social Security Act]."); Weinberger v. Salfi, 422 U. S. 749, 756-757 (1975). Congress has done nothing of that sort here, however.     Title 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3) does not state that a private plaintiff may bring an action under the TCPA "only" in state court, or "exclusively" in state court. The absence of such a statement contrasts with the Act's instruction on suits instituted by State Attorneys General. As earlier noted, see supra, at 4, 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(2) (Supp. 2011) vests "exclusive jurisdiction over [such] actions" in "[t]he district courts of the United States."10 Section 227(g)(2)'s exclusivity prescription "reinforce[s] the conclusion that [47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3)'s] silence . . . leaves the jurisdictional grant of §1331 untouched. For where otherwise applicable jurisdiction was meant to be excluded, it was excluded expressly." Verizon Md., 535 U. S., at 644; see ErieNet, 156 F. 3d, at 522 (Alito, J., dissenting) ("[47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(2) (Supp. 2011)] reveals that, while drafting the TCPA, Congress knew full well how to grant exclusive jurisdiction with mandatory language. The most natural interpretation of Congress' failure to use similar language in [47 U. S. C. §]227(b)(3) is that Congress did not intend to grant exclusive jurisdiction in that section."); Brill, 427 F. 3d, at 451 ("[47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(2) (Supp. 2011)] is explicit about exclusivity, while [47 U. S. C.] §227(b)(3) is not; the natural inference is that the state forum mentioned in §227(b)(3) is optional rather than mandatory.").11     Arrow urges that Congress would have had no reason to provide for a private action "in an appropriate [state] court," §227(b)(3), if it did not mean to make the state forum exclusive. Had Congress said nothing at all about bringing private TCPA claims in state courts, Arrow observes, those courts would nevertheless have concurrent jurisdiction. See supra, at 9. True enough, but Congress had simultaneously provided for TCPA enforcement actions by state authorities, 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g) (Supp. 2011), and had made federal district courts exclusively competent in such cases, §227(g)(2). Congress may simply have wanted to avoid any argument that in private actions, as in actions brought by State Attorneys General, "federal jurisdiction is exclusive." Brill, 427 F. 3d, at 451 (emphasis deleted) (citing Yellow Freight, 494 U. S. 820 (holding, after 26 years of litigation, that claims under the Civil Rights Act of 1964 may be resolved in state as well as federal courts) and Tafflin, 493 U. S. 455 (holding, after 20 years of litigation, that claims under RICO may be resolved in state as well as federal courts)). Moreover, by providing that private actions may be brought in state court "if otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of [the] State," 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3), Congress arguably gave States leeway they would otherwise lack to "decide for [themselves] whether to entertain claims under the [TCPA]," Brill, 427 F. 3d, at 451. See Brief for Respondent 16 (Congress "le[ft] States free to decide what TCPA claims to allow.").12     Making state-court jurisdiction over §227(b)(3) claims exclusive, Arrow further asserts, "fits hand in glove with [Congress'] objective": enabling States to control telemarketers whose interstate operations evaded state law. Id., at 15. Even so, we have observed, jurisdiction conferred by 28 U. S. C. §1331 should hold firm against "mere implication flowing from subsequent legislation." Colorado River Water Conservation Dist. v. United States, 424 U. S. 800, 808, 809, n. 15 (1976) (quoting Rosencrans v. United States, 165 U. S. 257, 262 (1897)).     We are not persuaded, moreover, that Congress sought only to fill a gap in the States' enforcement capabilities. Had Congress so limited its sights, it could have passed a statute providing that out-of-state telemarketing calls directed into a State would be subject to the laws of the receiving State. Congress did not enact such a law. Instead, it enacted detailed, uniform, federal substantive prescriptions and provided for a regulatory regime administered by a federal agency. See 47 U. S. C. §227. TCPA liability thus depends on violation of a federal statutory requirement or an FCC regulation, §§227(b)(3)(A), (c)(5), not on a violation of any state substantive law.     The federal interest in regulating telemarketing to "protec[t] the privacy of individuals" while "permit[ting] legitimate [commercial] practices," 105 Stat. 2394, note following 47 U. S. C. §227 (Congressional Findings) (internal quotation marks omitted), is evident from the regulatory role Congress assigned to the FCC. See, e.g., §227(b)(2) (delegating to the FCC authority to exempt calls from the Act's reach and prohibit calls to businesses). Congress' design would be less well served if consumers had to rely on "the laws or rules of court of a State," §227(b)(3), or the accident of diversity jurisdiction,13 to gain redress for TCPA violations.           Arrow emphasizes a statement made on the Senate floor by Senator Hollings, the TCPA's sponsor:     "Computerized calls are the scourge of modern civilization. They wake us up in the morning; they interrupt our dinner at night; they force the sick and elderly out of bed; they hound us until we want to rip the telephone right out of the wall.     .?????.?????.?????.?????.          "The substitute bill contains a private right-of-action provision that will make it easier for consumers to recover damages from receiving these computerized calls. The provision would allow consumers to bring an action in State court against any entity that violates the bill. The bill does not, because of constitutional constraints, dictate to the States which court in each State shall be the proper venue for such an action, as this is a matter for State legislators to determine. Nevertheless, it is my hope that States will make it as easy as possible for consumers to bring such actions, preferably in small claims court. . . .     "Small claims court or a similar court would allow the consumer to appear before the court without an attorney. The amount of damages in this legislation is set to be fair to both the consumer and the telemarketer. However, it would defeat the purposes of the bill if the attorneys' costs to consumers of bringing an action were greater than the potential damages. I thus expect that the States will act reasonably in permitting their citizens to go to court to enforce this bill." 137 Cong. Rec. 30821-30822 (1991).This statement does not bear the weight Arrow would place on it.     First, the views of a single legislator, even a bill's sponsor, are not controlling. Consumer Product Safety Comm'n v. GTE Sylvania, Inc., 447 U. S. 102, 118 (1980). Second, Senator Hollings did not mention federal-court jurisdiction or otherwise suggest that 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3) is intended to divest federal courts of authority to hear TCPA claims. Hollings no doubt believed that mine-run TCPA claims would be pursued most expeditiously in state small-claims court.14 But one cannot glean from his statement any expectation that those courts, or state courts generally, would have exclusive jurisdiction over private actions alleging violations of the Act or of the FCC's implementing regulations. Third, even if we agreed with Arrow that Senator Hollings expected private TCPA actions to proceed solely in state courts, and even if other supporters shared his view, that expectation would not control our judgment on 28 U. S. C. §1331's compass. Cf. Yellow Freight, 494 U. S., at 826 ("persuasive showing that most legislators, judges, and administrators . . . involved in the enactment, amendment, enforcement, and interpretation of Title VII expected that such litigation would be processed exclusively in federal courts" did not overcome presumption of concurrent state-court jurisdiction).     Among its arguments for state-court exclusivity, Arrow raises a concern about the impact on federal courts were we to uphold §1331 jurisdiction over private actions under the TCPA. "[G]iven the enormous volume of telecommunications presenting potential claims," Arrow projects, federal courts could be inundated by $500-per-violation TCPA claims. Brief for Respondent 33. "Moreover, if plaintiffs are free to bring TCPA claims in federal court under §1331, then defendants sued in state court would be equally free to remove those cases to federal court under 28 U. S. C. §1441." Id., at 22-23. Indeed, Arrow suggests, defendants could use removal as a mechanism to force small-claims-court plaintiffs to abandon suit rather than "figh[t] it out" in the "more expensive federal forum." Id., at 23.     Arrow's floodgates argument assumes "a shocking degree of noncompliance" with the Act, Reply Brief 11, and seems to us more imaginary than real. The current federal district court civil filing fee is $350. 28 U. S. C. §1914(a). How likely is it that a party would bring a $500 claim in, or remove a $500 claim to, federal court? Lexis and Westlaw searches turned up 65 TCPA claims removed to federal district courts in Illinois, Indiana, and Wisconsin since the Seventh Circuit held, in October 2005, that the Act does not confer exclusive jurisdiction on state courts. All 65 cases were class actions, not individual cases removed from small-claims court.15 There were also 26 private TCPA claims brought initially in federal district courts; of those, 24 were class actions.IV     Nothing in the text, structure, purpose, or legislative history of the TCPA calls for displacement of the federal-question jurisdiction U. S. district courts ordinarily have under 28 U. S. C. §1331. In the absence of direction from Congress stronger than any Arrow has advanced, we apply the familiar default rule: Federal courts have §1331 jurisdiction over claims that arise under federal law. Because federal law gives rise to the claim for relief Mims has stated and specifies the substantive rules of decision, the Eleventh Circuit erred in dismissing Mims's case for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction.*??*??*     For the reasons stated, the judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESRespondent Bormes, an attorney, filed suit against the Federal Government, alleging that the electronic receipt he received when paying his client's federal-court filing fee on Pay.gov included the last four digits of his credit card number and the card's expiration date, in willful violation of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), 15 U. S. C. §1681 et seq. He sought damages under §1681n and asserted jurisdiction under §1681p, as well as under the Little Tucker Act, which grants district courts "original jurisdiction, concurrent with the United States Court of Federal Claims, of . . . [a]ny. . . civil action or claim against the United States, not exceeding $10,000 in amount, founded . . . upon . . . any Act of Congress," 28 U. S. C. §1346(a)(2). In dismissing the suit, the District Court held that FCRA did not explicitly waive the Federal Government's sovereign immunity. Bormes appealed to the Federal Circuit, which vacated the District Court's decision, holding that the Little Tucker Act provided the Government's consent to suit because the underlying statute--FCRA--could fairly be interpreted as mandating a right of recovery in damages.Held: The Little Tucker Act does not waive the Government's sovereign immunity with respect to FCRA damages actions. Pp. 4-11.     (a) The Little Tucker Act and its companion statute, the Tucker Act, provide the Federal Government's consent to suit for certain money-damages claims "premised on other sources of law," United States v. Navajo Nation, 556 U. S. 287, 290. The general terms of the Tucker Acts are displaced, however, when a law imposing monetary liability has its own judicial remedies. In that event, the specific remedial scheme establishes the exclusive framework for determining the scope of liability under the statute. See, e.g., Hinck v. United States, 550 U. S. 501. Pp. 4-7.     (b) FCRA is such a statute. Its detailed remedial scheme sets "out a carefully circumscribed, time-limited, plaintiff-specific" cause of action, and "also precisely define[s] the appropriate forum," 550 U. S., at 507. FCRA authorizes aggrieved consumers to hold "any person" who "willfully" or "negligent[ly]" fails to comply with the Act's requirements liable for specified damages, 15 U. S. C. §§1681n(a), 1681o; requires enforcement claims to be brought within a specified limitations period, §1681p; and provides that jurisdiction will lie "in any appropriate United States district court, without regard to the amount in controversy," ibid. Because FCRA enables claimants to pursue monetary relief in court without resort to the Tucker Act, only its own text can determine whether Congress unequivocally intended to impose the statute's damages liability on the Federal Government. Pp. 7-10.626 F. 3d 574, vacated and remanded.     Scalia, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Opinion of the Court?568 U. S. ____ (2012)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 11-192UNITED STATES, PETITIONER v. JAMES X. BORMESon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit[November 13, 2012]     Justice Scalia delivered the opinion of the Court.     The Little Tucker Act, 28 U. S. C. §1346(a)(2), provides that "[t]he district courts shall have original jurisdiction, concurrent with the United States Court of Federal Claims, of . . . [a]ny. . . civil action or claim against the United States, not exceeding $10,000 in amount, founded . . . upon . . . any Act of Congress." We consider whether the Little Tucker Act waives the sovereign immunity of the United States with respect to damages actions for violations of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), 15 U. S. C. §1681 et seq.I     The Fair Credit Reporting Act has as one of its purposes to "protect consumer privacy." Safeco Ins. Co. of America v. Burr, 551 U. S. 47, 52 (2007); see 84 Stat. 1128, 15 U. S. C. §1681. To that end, FCRA provides, among other things, that "no person that accepts credit cards or debit cards for the transaction of business shall print more than the last 5 digits of the card number or the expiration date upon any receipt provided to the cardholder at the point of the sale or transaction." §1681c(g)(1) (emphasis added). The Act defines "person" as "any individual, partnership, corporation, trust, estate, cooperative, association, government or governmental subdivision or agency, or other entity." §1681a(b).     FCRA imposes civil liability for willful or negligent noncompliance with its requirements: "Any person who willfully fails to comply" with the Act "with respect to any consumer," "is liable to that consumer" for actual damages or damages "of not less than $100 and not more than $1,000," as well as punitive damages, attorney's fees, and costs. §1681n(a); see also §1681o (civil liability for negligent noncompliance). The Act includes a jurisdictional provision, which provides that "[a]n action to enforce any liability created under this subchapter may be brought in any appropriate United States district court, without regard to the amount in controversy, or in any other court of competent jurisdiction" within the earlier of "2 years after the date of discovery by the plaintiff of the violation that is the basis for such liability" or "5 years after the date on which the violation that is the basis for such liability occurs." §1681p.     Respondent James X. Bormes is an attorney who filed a putative class action against the United States in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois seeking damages under FCRA. Bormes alleged that he paid a $350 federal-court filing fee for a client using his own credit card on Pay.gov, an Internet-based system used by federal courts and dozens of federal agencies to process online payment transactions. According to Bormes, his Pay.gov electronic receipt included the last four digits of his credit card, in addition to its expiration date, in willful violation of §1681c(g)(1). He claimed that he and thousands of similarly situated persons were entitled to recover damages under §1681n, and asserted jurisdiction under §1681p, as well as under the Little Tucker Act, 28 U. S. C. §1346(a)(2).     The District Court dismissed the suit, holding that FCRA does not contain the explicit waiver of sovereign immunity necessary to permit a damages suit against the United States. 638 F. Supp. 2d 958, 962 (ND Ill. 2009). The court did not address the Little Tucker Act as an asserted basis for jurisdiction. Respondent appealed to the Federal Circuit, which has exclusive jurisdiction "of an appeal from a final decision of a district court of the United States . . . if the jurisdiction of that court was based, in whole or in part, on" the Little Tucker Act. 28 U. S. C. §1295(a)(2). Arguing that the Little Tucker Act's jurisdictional grant did not apply to respondent's suit, the Government moved to transfer the appeal to the Seventh Circuit.     The Federal Circuit denied the transfer motion and went on to vacate the District Court's decision. Without deciding whether FCRA itself contained the requisite waiver of sovereign immunity, the court held that the Little Tucker Act provided the Government's consent to suit for violation of FCRA. The court explained that the Little Tucker Act applied because FCRA " 'can fairly be interpreted as mandating compensation by the Federal Government for the damage sustained.' " 626 F. 3d 574, 578 (2010) (quoting United States v. White Mountain Apache Tribe, 537 U. S. 465, 472 (2003)). This "fair interpretation" rule, the court explained, "demands a showing 'demonstrably lower' than the initial waiver of sovereign immunity" contained in the Little Tucker Act itself. 626 F. 3d, at 578. The court reasoned that FCRA satisfied the "fair interpretation" rule because its damages provision applies to "any person" who willfully violates its requirements, 15 U. S. C. §1681n(a), and the Act elsewhere defines "person" to include "any . . . government," §1681a(b). 626 F. 3d, at 580. The Federal Circuit remanded to the District Court for further proceedings. We granted certiorari, 565 U. S. ___ (2012).II     Sovereign immunity shields the United States from suit absent a consent to be sued that is " 'unequivocally expressed.' " United States v. Nordic Village, Inc., 503 U. S. 30, 33-34 (1992) (quoting Irwin v. Department of Veterans Affairs, 498 U. S. 89, 95 (1990); some internal quotation marks omitted). The Little Tucker Act is one statute that unequivocally provides the Federal Government's consent to suit for certain money-damages claims. United States v. Mitchell, 463 U. S. 206, 216 (1983) (Mitchell II). Subject to exceptions not relevant here, the Little Tucker Act provides that "district courts shall have original jurisdiction, concurrent with the United States Court of Federal Claims," of a "civil action or claim against the United States, not exceeding $10,000 in amount, founded either upon the Constitution, or any Act of Congress, or any regulation of an executive department, or upon any express or implied contract with the United States, or for liquidated or unliquidated damages in cases not sounding in tort." 28 U. S. C. §1346(a)(2).1 The Little Tucker Act and its companion statute, the Tucker Act, §1491(a)(1),2 do not themselves "creat[e] substantive rights," but "are simply jurisdictional provisions that operate to waive sovereign immunity for claims premised on other sources of law." United States v. Navajo Nation, 556 U. S. 287, 290 (2009).     Bormes argues that whether or not FCRA itself unam-biguously waives sovereign immunity, the Little Tucker Act authorizes his FCRA damages claim against the United States. The question, then, is whether a damages claim under FCRA "falls within the terms of the Tucker Act," so that "the United States has presumptively consented to suit." Mitchell II, supra, at 216. It does not. Where, as in FCRA, a statute contains its own self-executing remedial scheme, we look only to that statute to determine whether Congress intended to subject the United States to damages liability.A     The Court of Claims was established, and the Tucker Act enacted, to open a judicial avenue for certain mone-tary claims against the United States. Before the creation of the Court of Claims in 1855, see Act of Feb. 24, 1855 (1855 Act), ch. 122, §1, 10 Stat. 612, it was not uncommon for statutes to impose monetary obligations on the United States without specifying a means of judicial enforcement.3 As a result, claimants routinely petitioned Congress for private bills to recover money owed by the Federal Government. See Mitchell II, supra, at 212 (citing P. Bator, P. Mishkin, D. Shapiro & H. Wechsler, Hart and Wechsler's The Federal Courts and the Federal System 98 (2d ed. 1973)). As this individualized legislative process became increasingly burdensome for Congress, the Court of Claims was created "to relieve the pressure on Congress caused by the volume of private bills." Glidden Co. v. Zdanok, 370 U. S. 530, 552 (1962) (plurality opinion). The 1855 Act authorized the Court of Claims to hear claims against the United States "founded upon any law of Congress," §1, 10 Stat. 612, and thus allowed claimants to sue the Federal Government for monetary relief premised on other sources of law. (Specialized legislation remained necessary to authorize the payments approved by the Court of Claims until 1863, when Congress empowered the court to enter final judgments. See Act of Mar. 3, 1863 (1863 Act), ch. 92, 12 Stat. 765; Mitchell II, supra, at 212-214 (recounting the history of the Court of Claims)).     Enacted in 1887, the Tucker Act was the successor statute to the 1855 and 1863 Acts and replaced most of their provisions. See Act of Mar. 3, 1887 (1887 Act), ch. 359, 24 Stat. 505; Mitchell II, supra, at 213-214. Like the 1855 Act before it, the Tucker Act provided the Federal Government's consent to suit in the Court of Claims for claims "founded upon . . . any law of Congress." 1887 Act §1, 24 Stat. 505. Section 2 of the 1887 Act created concurrent jurisdiction in the district courts for claims of up to $1,000. The Tucker Act's jurisdictional grant, and accompanying immunity waiver, supplied the missing ingredient for an action against the United States for the breach of monetary obligations not otherwise judicially enforceable.4B     The Tucker Act is displaced, however, when a law assertedly imposing monetary liability on the United States contains its own judicial remedies. In that event, the specific remedial scheme establishes the exclusive framework for the liability Congress created under the statute. Because a "precisely drawn, detailed statute pre-empts more general remedies," Hinck v. United States, 550 U. S. 501, 506 (2007) (quoting EC Term of Years Trust v. United States, 550 U. S. 429, 434 (2007); internal quotation marks omitted), FCRA's self-executing remedial scheme supersedes the gap-filling role of the Tucker Act.     We have long recognized that an additional remedy in the Court of Claims is foreclosed when it contradicts the limits of a precise remedial scheme. In Nichols v. United States, 7 Wall. 122, 131 (1869), the issue was whether the 1855 Act authorized suit in the Court of Claims for improper assessment of duties on imported liquor that had already been paid without protest. The Court held that it did not. The revenue laws already provided a remedy: An aggrieved merchant could sue to recover the tax, but only after paying the duty under protest. Act of Feb. 26, 1845, ch. 22, 5 Stat. 727. The Court rejected the supposition that "Congress, after having carefully constructed a revenue system, with ample provisions to redress wrong, intended to give to the taxpayer and importer a further and different remedy." 7 Wall., at 131. Permitting suit under the 1855 Act, the Court concluded, would frustrate congressional intent with respect to the specific remedial scheme already in place. The 1855 Act was confined to a gap-filling role. As we said in a later case, "the general laws which govern the Court of Claims may be resorted to for relief" only because "[n]o special remedy has been provided" to enforce a payment to which the claimant was entitled. United States v. Kaufman, 96 U. S. 567, 569 (1878). Where the "liability is one created by statute," the "special remedy provided by the same statute is exclusive." Ibid.     Our more recent cases have consistently held that statutory schemes with their own remedial framework exclude alternative relief under the general terms of the Tucker Act. See, e.g., Hinck, supra; United States v. Fausto, 484 U. S. 439 (1988); United States v. Erika, Inc., 456 U. S. 201 (1982). Respondent contends that in each of those cases Congress had unambiguously demonstrated its intent to foreclose additional review by the Court of Federal Claims--whereas here, no similar intent to preclude Tucker Act jurisdiction is apparent. See Brief for Respondent 27-28. But our precedents collectively stand for a more basic proposition: Where a specific statutory scheme provides the accoutrements of a judicial action, the metes and bounds of the liability Congress intended to create can only be divined from the text of the statute itself.5     In Hinck, for example, we held that the Tax Court provides the exclusive forum for suits under 26 U. S. C. §6404(h), which authorizes judicial review of the Secre-tary's decision not to abate interest under §6404(e)(1). We relied on "our past recognition that when Congress enacts a specific remedy when no remedy was previously recognized . . . the remedy provided is generally regarded as exclusive." 550 U. S., at 506. Section 6404(h), we concluded, "fits the bill": it "provides a forum for adjudication, a limited class of potential plaintiffs, a statute of limitations, a standard of review, and authorization for judicial relief." Ibid. It did not matter that Congress "fail[ed] explicitly to define the Tax Court's jurisdiction as exclusive." Ibid. We found it "quite plain that the terms of §6404(h)--a 'precisely drawn, detailed statute' filling a perceived hole in the law--control all requests for review of §6404(e)(1) determinations." Ibid.     Like §6404(h), FCRA creates a detailed remedial scheme. Its provisions "set out a carefully circumscribed, time-limited, plaintiff-specific" cause of action, and "also precisely define the appropriate forum." Id., at 507. It authorizes aggrieved consumers to hold "any person" who "willfully" or "negligent[ly]" fails to comply with the Act's requirements liable for specified damages. 15 U. S. C. §§1681n(a), 1681o. Claims to enforce liability must be brought within a specified limitations period, §1681p, and jurisdiction will lie "in any appropriate United States district court, without regard to the amount in controversy, or in any other court of competent jurisdiction." Ibid. Without resort to the Tucker Act, FCRA enables claimants to pursue in court the monetary relief contemplated by the statute.     Plaintiffs cannot, therefore, mix and match FCRA's provisions with the Little Tucker Act's immunity waiver to create an action against the United States. Since FCRA is a detailed remedial scheme, only its own text can determine whether the damages liability Congress crafted extends to the Federal Government. To hold otherwise--to permit plaintiffs to remedy the absence of a waiver of sovereign immunity in specific, detailed statutes by pleading general Tucker Act jurisdiction--would transform the sovereign-immunity landscape.     The Federal Circuit was therefore wrong to conclude that the Tucker Act justified applying a "less stringent" sovereign-immunity analysis to FCRA than our cases require. 626 F. 3d, at 582. It distorted our case law in applying to FCRA the immunity-waiver standard we expressed in White Mountain Apache Tribe, 537 U. S., at 472: whether the statute " 'can fairly be interpreted as mandating compensation by the Federal Government for the damage sustained.' " 626 F. 3d, at 578. That is the test for determining whether a statute that imposes an obligation but does not provide the elements of a cause of action qualifies for suit under the Tucker Act--more specifically, whether the failure to perform an obligation undoubtedly imposed on the Federal Government creates a right to monetary relief. See White Mountain Apache Tribe, supra; Mitchell II, 463 U. S. 206. That test is not relevant when a "mandate of compensation" is contained in a statute that provides a detailed judicial remedy against those who are subject to its requirements. FCRA is such a statute. By using the "fair interpretation" test to determine whether FCRA's civil liability provisions apply to the United States, the Federal Circuit directed the test to a purpose for which it was not designed and leapfrogged the threshold concern that the Tucker Act cannot be superimposed on an existing remedial scheme.*??*??*     We do not decide here whether FCRA itself waives the Federal Government's immunity to damages actions under §1681n. That question is for the Seventh Circuit to consider once this case is transferred to it on remand. But whether or not FCRA contains the necessary waiver of immunity, any attempt to append a Tucker Act remedy to the statute's existing remedial scheme interferes with its intended scope of liability.     The judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated, and the case remanded with instructions to transfer the case to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESCongress enacted the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005 (CAFA) to lower diversity jurisdiction requirements in class actions and, as relevant here, in mass actions, i.e., civil actions "in which monetary relief claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact," 28 U. S. C. §1332(d)(11)(B)(i). Petitioner Mississippi sued respondent liquid crystal display (LCD) manufacturers in state court, alleging violations of state law and seeking, inter alia, restitution for LCD purchases made by itself and its citizens. Respondents sought to remove the case to federal court. The District Court held that the suit qualified as a mass action under §1332(d)(11)(B)(i), but remanded the suit to state court on the ground that it fell within CAFA's "general public" exception, §1332(d)(11)(B)(ii)(III). The Fifth Circuit reversed, agreeing with the District Court that the suit was a mass action but finding the general public exception inapplicable.Held: Because Mississippi is the only named plaintiff, this suit does not constitute a mass action under CAFA. Pp. 5-14.     (a) Contrary to respondents' argument, CAFA's "100 or more persons" phrase does not encompass unnamed persons who are real parties in interest to claims brought by named plaintiffs. Congress knew how to draft language to that effect when it intended such a meaning, see, e.g., §§1332(d)(5)(B), 1332(d)(1)(D). That it did not do so in the mass action provision indicates that Congress did not want the provision's numerosity requirement to be satisfied by counting unnamed individuals who possess an interest in the suit.     Respondents' understanding also cannot be reconciled with the fact that the "100 or more persons" are not unspecified individuals with no participation in the suit but are the "plaintiffs" subsequently referred to in the provision, i.e., the very parties proposing to join their claims in a single trial. This is evident in two key ways. First, CAFA uses "persons" and "plaintiffs" the same way they are used in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 20, which refers to "persons" as individuals who are proposing to join as "plaintiffs" in a single action. Second, it is difficult to imagine how the "claims of 100 or more" unnamed individuals could be "proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the . . . claims" of some completely different group of named plaintiffs "involve common questions of law or fact."     Construing "plaintiffs" to include both named and unnamed real parties in interest would stretch the meaning of "plaintiff" beyond recognition. A "plaintiff" is commonly understood to be a party who brings a civil suit in a court of law, not anyone, named or unnamed, whom a suit may benefit. Moreover, respondents' definition would also have to apply to the mass action provision's subsequent reference to "plaintiffs" in the phrase "jurisdiction shall exist only over those plaintiffs whose claims [exceed $75,000]," §1332(d)(11)(B)(i). See Brown v. Gardner, 513 U. S. 115, 118. This would result in an administrative nightmare that Congress could not possibly have intended, see Griffin v. Oceanic Contractors, Inc., 458 U. S. 564, 575, where district courts would have to identify hundreds (or in this case, hundreds of thousands) of unnamed parties whose claims are for less than $75,000 and then decide how to dispose of their claims. Pp. 5-10.     (b) Statutory context reinforces this Court's reading of the mass action provision. CAFA provides that once removal occurs, a case shall not be transferred to another court "unless a majority of the plaintiffs in the action request transfer." §1332(d)(11)(C)(i). If "plaintiffs" included unnamed parties, it would be surpassingly difficult for a court to poll the enormous number of real parties in interest to decide whether an action may be transferred. Moreover, respondents' position that the action here should be removed because it is similar to a class action fails to recognize that the mass action provision functions largely as a backstop to ensure that CAFA's relaxed class action jurisdictional rules cannot be evaded by a suit that names a host of plaintiffs rather than using the class device. Had Congress wanted CAFA to authorize removal of representative actions brought by States as sole plaintiffs on respondents' theory, it would have done so through the class action provision, not the mass action provision. Pp. 10-11.     (c) This Court has interpreted the diversity jurisdiction statute to require courts in certain contexts to look behind the pleadings to ensure that parties are not improperly creating or destroying diversity jurisdiction, see, e.g., Wecker v. National Enameling & Stamping Co., 204 U. S. 176, 185-186, but Congress did not intend this background inquiry to apply to the mass action provision. First, it could make sense to incorporate the background inquiry into the mass action provision if the inquiry had previously been applied in a similar manner. That is not the case here, however, and so any presumption that Congress wanted to incorporate the inquiry, if it exists at all, would be comparatively weak. Second, even if the background principle had previously been applied in this manner, Congress expressly indicated that it did not want the principle to apply to the mass action provision both through the textual indicators described above and by prohibiting defendants from joining unnamed individuals to a lawsuit in order to turn it into a mass action, §1332(d)(11)(B)(ii)(II). Requiring district courts to identify unnamed persons interested in the suit would run afoul of that intent. Pp. 11-13.701 F. 3d 796, reversed and remanded.     Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Opinion of the Court?571 U. S. ____ (2014)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 12-1036MISSISSIPPI ex rel. JIM HOOD, ATTORNEY GENERAL, PETITIONER v. AU OPTRONICS CORPORATION et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit[January 14, 2014]     Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.     Under the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005 (CAFA or Act), defendants in civil suits may remove "mass actions" from state to federal court. CAFA defines a "mass action" as "any civil action . . . in which monetary relief claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact." 28 U. S. C. §1332(d)(11)(B)(i). The question presented is whether a suit filed by a State as the sole plaintiff constitutes a "mass action" under CAFA where it includes a claim for restitution based on injuries suffered by the State's citizens. We hold that it does not. According to CAFA's plain text, a "mass action" must involve monetary claims brought by 100 or more persons who propose to try those claims jointly as named plaintiffs. Because the State of Mississippi is the only named plaintiff in the instant action, the case must be remanded to state court.IA     Congress enacted CAFA in order to "amend the procedures that apply to consideration of interstate class actions." 119 Stat. 4. In doing so, Congress recognized that "[c]lass action lawsuits are an important and valuable part of the legal system." CAFA §2. It was concerned, however, that certain requirements of federal diversity jurisdiction, 28 U. S. C. §1332, had functioned to "kee[p] cases of national importance" in state courts rather than federal courts. CAFA §2.     CAFA accordingly loosened the requirements for diversity jurisdiction for two types of cases--"class actions" and "mass actions." The Act defines "class action" to mean "any civil action filed under rule 23 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure or similar State statute or rule of judicial procedure." 28 U. S. C. §1332(d)(1)(B). And it defines "mass action" to mean "any civil action . . . in which monetary relief claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact." §1332(d)(11)(B)(i).     For class and mass actions, CAFA expanded diversity jurisdiction in two key ways. First, it replaced the ordinary requirement of complete diversity of citizenship among all plaintiffs and defendants, see State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v. Tashire, 386 U. S. 523, 530-531 (1967), with a requirement of minimal diversity. Under that requirement, a federal court may exercise jurisdiction over a class action if "any member of a class of plaintiffs is a citizen of a State different from any defendant." §1332(d)(2)(A). The same rule applies to mass actions. See §1332(d)(11)(A) ("[A] mass action shall be deemed . . . removable under [§§1332(d)(2) through (d)(10)]"). Second, whereas §1332(a) ordinarily requires each plaintiff's claim to exceed the sum or value of $75,000, see Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Allapattah Services, Inc., 545 U. S. 546, 554-555 (2005), CAFA grants federal jurisdiction over class and mass actions in which the aggregate amount in controversy exceeds $5 million. §§1332(d)(2), (d)(6), (d)(11)(A). Class and mass actions filed in state court that satisfy CAFA's requirements may be removed to federal court, 28 U. S. C. §1453, but federal jurisdiction in a mass action, unlike a class action, "shall exist only over those plaintiffs" whose claims individually satisfy the $75,000 amount in controversy requirement, §1332(d)(11)(B)(i).1B     Respondents manufacture liquid crystal displays, or LCDs. In March 2011, the State of Mississippi sued them in state court, alleging that they had formed an international cartel to restrict competition and raise prices in the LCD market. The State claimed that these actions violated two Mississippi statutes: the Mississippi Antitrust Act, Miss. Code Ann. §75-21-1 et seq. (2009), and the Mississippi Consumer Protection Act, §75-24-1 et seq. (2009 and Cum. Supp. 2013). The State sought injunctive relief and civil penalties under both statutes, along with punitive damages, costs, and attorney's fees. It also sought restitution for its own purchases "of LCD products and the purchases of its citizens." App. to Brief in Opposition 65a; §75-24-11.     Respondents filed a notice to remove the case from state to federal court, arguing that the case was removable under CAFA as either a "class action" or a "mass action." The District Court ruled that the suit did not qualify as a "class action" because it was "not brought pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23 or a 'similar State statute or rule of judicial procedure.' " 876 F. Supp. 2d 758, 769 (SD Miss. 2012). But it held that the suit did qualify as a "mass action," because "[i]t is a civil action 'in which monetary relief claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact.' " Id., at 771. The District Court reached that conclusion on the basis of Fifth Circuit precedent in Louisiana ex rel. Caldwell v. Allstate Ins. Co., 536 F. 3d 418 (CA5 2008), which it understood to "stan[d] for the proposition that the words 'persons' and 'plaintiffs' in [the mass action definition] are to be defined as 'real parties in interest.' " 876 F. Supp. 2d, at 771. Applying that rule, the court found that 100 or more unidentified Mississippi consumers had purchased LCD screens and were therefore real parties in interest to the State's restitution claim. Ibid. The court noted the "possibility that a 'mass action' should be thought of as a 'mass joinder,' "--that is, as a suit involving 100 or more "named plaintiffs." Ibid., n. 9. But it deemed that interpretation to be foreclosed by Caldwell.     The District Court nonetheless remanded the case to state court on the basis of CAFA's "general public exception," which excludes from the "mass action" definition "any civil action in which . . . all of the claims in the action are asserted on behalf of the general public (and not on behalf of individual claimants or members of a purported class) pursuant to a State statute specifically authorizing such action." 28 U. S. C. §1332(d)(11)(B)(ii)(III).     The Court of Appeals reversed. 701 F. 3d 796 (CA5 2012). It agreed with the District Court's determination that Mississippi's suit is not a "class action" under CAFA.2 Id., at 799. It also agreed that, under Caldwell, the suit qualifies as a "mass action" because "[t]he real parties in interest in Mississippi's suit are those more than 100 . . . individual citizens who purchased the [LCD] products within Mississippi." 701 F. 3d, at 800. It disagreed, however, with the District Court's ruling that the suit falls within the general public exception. Id., at 802-803.3 Judge Elrod concurred in the judgment, noting that after the Fifth Circuit's decision in Caldwell, three Courts of Appeals had deemed similar lawsuits not to be mass actions removable under CAFA.4 We granted certiorari to resolve this split of authority, 569 U. S. ___ (2013), and now reverse.IIA     Our analysis begins with the statutory text. Sebelius v. Cloer, 569 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 6). The statute provides:"[T]he term mass action means any civil action (except a [class action]) in which monetary relief claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact, except that jurisdiction shall exist only over those plaintiffs whose claims in a mass action satisfy the jurisdictional amount requirements under subsection (a)." §1332(d)(11)(B)(i).     The parties do not dispute that this provision encompasses suits that are brought jointly by 100 or more named plaintiffs who propose to try their claims together. The question is whether the provision also includes suits brought by fewer than 100 named plaintiffs on the theory that there may be 100 or more unnamed persons who are real parties in interest as beneficiaries to any of the plaintiffs' claims. Respondents argue that the provision covers such suits because "claims of 100 or more persons" refers to "the persons to whom the claim belongs, i.e., the real parties in interest to the claims," regardless of whether those persons are named or unnamed. Brief for Respondents 19 (emphasis in original). We disagree.     To start, the statute says "100 or more persons," not "100 or more named or unnamed real parties in interest." Had Congress intended the latter, it easily could have drafted language to that effect. Indeed, when Congress wanted a numerosity requirement in CAFA to be satisfied by counting unnamed parties in interest in addition to named plaintiffs, it explicitly said so: CAFA provides that in order for a class action to be removable, "the number of members of all proposed plaintiff classes" must be 100 or greater, §1332(d)(5)(B), and it defines "class members" to mean "the persons (named or unnamed) who fall within the definition of the proposed or certified class," §1332(d)(1)(D). Congress chose not to use the phrase "named or unnamed" in CAFA's mass action provision, a decision we understand to be intentional. See Dean v. United States, 556 U. S. 568, 573 (2009) (" '[W]here Congress includes particular language in one section of a statute but omits it in another section of the same Act, it is generally presumed that Congress acts intentionally and purposely in the disparate inclusion or exclusion' ").     More fundamentally, respondents' interpretation cannot be reconciled with the fact that the "100 or more persons" referred to in the statute are not unspecified individuals who have no actual participation in the suit, but instead the very "plaintiffs" referred to later in the sentence--the parties who are proposing to join their claims in a single trial. Congress made this understanding evident in two key ways.     First, we presume that " 'Congress is aware of existing law when it passes legislation.' " Hall v. United States, 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 9). Here, Congress used the terms "persons" and "plaintiffs" just as they are used in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 20, governing party joinder. Where §1332(d)(11)(B)(i) requires that the "claims of 100 or more persons [must be] proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact," Rule 20 provides that "[p]ersons may join in one action as plaintiffs if they assert any right to relief jointly . . . and any question of law or fact common to all plaintiffs will arise in the action." Thus, just as it is used in Rule 20, the term "persons" in §1332(d)(11)(B)(i) refers to the individuals who are proposing to join as plaintiffs in a single action.     Second, respondents' interpretation of "persons" cannot square with the statute's requirement that the claims of the "100 or more persons" must be proposed for joint trial "on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact." §1332(d)(11)(B)(i). It is difficult to imagine how the claims of one set of unnamed individuals could be proposed for joint trial on the ground that the claims of some completely different group of named plaintiffs share common questions. The better understanding is that Congress meant for the "100 or more persons" and the proposed "plaintiffs" to be one and the same.     Recognizing that the statute's use of the term "persons" could be a reference to proposed plaintiffs, respondents assert that "plaintiffs," like "persons," should be construed to "includ[e] both named and unnamed real parties in interest." Brief for Respondents 24. But that stretches the meaning of "plaintiff" beyond recognition. The term "plaintiff" is among the most commonly understood of legal terms of art: It means a "party who brings a civil suit in a court of law." Black's Law Dictionary 1267 (9th ed. 2009); see also Webster's Third New International Dictionary 1729 (1961) (defining "plaintiff" to mean "one who commences a personal action or lawsuit," or "the complaining party in any litigation"). It certainly does not mean "anyone, named or unnamed, whom a suit may benefit," as respondents suggest.5     Moreover, Congress used the term "plaintiffs" twice in the mass action provision. The provision encompasses actions in which monetary "claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions," and it then provides that "jurisdiction shall exist only over those plaintiffs whose claims in a mass action satisfy the jurisdictional amount requiremen[t]" of $75,000. §1332(d) (11)(B)(i). If respondents are correct that "plaintiffs" means unnamed parties in interest where it is used the first time, then so too the second. After all, the "presumption that a given term is used to mean the same thing throughout a statute" is "at its most vigorous when a term is repeated within a given sentence." Brown v. Gardner, 513 U. S. 115, 118 (1994).     Yet if the term "plaintiffs" is stretched to include all unnamed individuals with an interest in the suit, then §1332(d)(11)(B)(i)'s requirement that "jurisdiction shall exist only over those plaintiffs whose claims [exceed $75,000]" becomes an administrative nightmare that Congress could not possibly have intended, see Griffin v. Oceanic Contractors, Inc., 458 U. S. 564, 575 (1982). How is a district court to identify the unnamed parties whose claims in a given case are for less than $75,000? Would the court in this case, for instance, have to hold an evidentiary hearing to determine the identity of each of the hundreds of thousands of unnamed Mississippi citizens who purchased one of respondents' LCD products between 1996 and 2006 (the period alleged in the complaint)? Even if it could identify every such person, how would it ascertain the amount in controversy for each individual claim? Respondents suggest that "[i]n some circumstances, defendants may be able to identify from their payment records any persons who may have claims for overpayments," but they stop notably short of claiming to possess such decades-old records themselves. Brief for Respondents 25.     Furthermore, what would happen with individuals whose claims were valued at less than $75,000? The District Court in this case suggested that if the suit were deemed a mass action, it would sever the claim for "restitution for losses incurred by individuals claiming less than or equal to $75,000 each" and remand that claim back to state court, while allowing the other claims (including the restitution claims exceeding $75,000) to proceed in federal court. 876 F. Supp. 2d, at 775. Even respondents do not defend that outcome, presumably because it would mean that much of the State's lawsuit could proceed in state court after all, simultaneously with the newly severed parallel federal action.6     We think it unlikely that Congress intended that federal district courts engage in these unwieldy inquiries. By contrast, interpreting "plaintiffs" in accordance with its usual meaning--to refer to the actual named parties who bring an action--leads to a straightforward, easy to administer rule under which a court would examine whether the plaintiffs have pleaded in good faith the requisite amount. See Horton v. Liberty Mut. Ins. Co., 367 U. S. 348, 353 (1961). Our decision thus comports with the commonsense observation that "when judges must decide jurisdictional matters, simplicity is a virtue." See Standard Fire Ins. Co. v. Knowles, 568 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 6).B     Our reading of the mass action provision's text is reinforced by the statutory context. See Mohamad v. Palestinian Authority, 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 5-6).     First, the provision of CAFA governing transfer motions confirms our view that the term "plaintiffs" refers to actual named parties as opposed to unnamed real parties in interest. That provision, §1332(d)(11)(C)(i), provides that once a mass action has been removed to federal court, it "shall not thereafter be transferred to any other court . . . unless a majority of the plaintiffs in the action request transfer." If respondents are correct that "plaintiffs" means "unnamed parties in interest," it will be surpassingly difficult for a court to decide in a case like this one whether an action may be transferred. The District Court itself acknowledged this problem, noting that it would have to identify and communicate with "hundreds of thousands if not millions of real parties in interest" to "pol[l] [them] about their preferred forum" if respondents' interpretation were correct. 876 F. Supp. 2d, at 777.     The context in which the mass action provision was enacted lends further support to our conclusion. Congress' overriding concern in enacting CAFA was with class actions. See Preamble, 119 Stat. 4 (describing CAFA as an "[a]ct to amend the procedures that apply to consideration of interstate class actions"); CAFA §2 (Congress' findings with respect to class actions). The mass action provision thus functions largely as a backstop to ensure that CAFA's relaxed jurisdictional rules for class actions cannot be evaded by a suit that names a host of plaintiffs rather than using the class device. Respondents' argument fails to recognize this key distinction. Their position is ultimately that "[t]his action is similar to a class action," such that it should be removed. Brief for Respondents 27. But if Congress had wanted representative actions brought by States as sole plaintiffs to be removable under CAFA on the theory that they are in substance no different from class actions, it would have done so through the class action provision, not the one governing mass actions.7III     Rather than relying on the text of CAFA as the source of its real party in interest inquiry, the Court of Appeals appeared to find such an inquiry necessary on the basis of what it understood to be a background principle: that "federal courts look to the substance of the action and not only at the labels that the parties may attach." Caldwell, 536 F. 3d, at 424. This was error.     We have interpreted the diversity jurisdiction statute to require courts in certain contexts to look behind the pleadings to ensure that parties are not improperly creating or destroying diversity jurisdiction. We have held, for example, that a plaintiff may not keep a case out of federal court by fraudulently naming a nondiverse defendant. Wecker v. National Enameling & Stamping Co., 204 U. S. 176, 185-186 (1907). Nor may a plaintiff create diversity by collusively assigning his interest in an action. Kramer v. Caribbean Mills, Inc., 394 U. S. 823, 825-830 (1969); see also 28 U. S. C. §1359. And in cases involving a State or state official, we have inquired into the real party in interest because a State's presence as a party will destroy complete diversity. Missouri, K. & T. R. Co. v. Missouri Railroad and Warehouse Comm'rs, 183 U. S. 53, 58-59 (1901).     But the question in this case is not simply whether there exists some background principle of analyzing the real parties in interest to a suit; the question is whether Congress intended that courts engage in that analysis when deciding whether a suit is a mass action. Recognizing this fact, respondents do not argue that the real party in interest inquiry employed in the above cases somehow supersedes the text of CAFA; they instead argue that we should read CAFA in light of those cases because " 'Congress expects its statutes to be read in conformity with this Court's precedents.' " Brief for Respondents 19 (quoting United States v. Wells, 519 U. S. 482, 495 (1997)). For two reasons, however, we conclude that Congress did not intend the background inquiry to apply to the mass action provision.     First, it makes sense to infer Congress' intent to incorporate a background principle into a new statute where the principle has previously been applied in a similar manner. But that is not the case here. The background real party in interest inquiry identifies what party's (or parties') citizenship should be considered in determining diversity. The inquiry that respondents urge is quite different: It is an attempt to count up additional unnamed parties in order to satisfy the mass action provision's numerosity requirement. Respondents offer no reason to believe that Congress intended to extend the real party inquiry to this new circumstance, and so any presumption that Congress wanted to incorporate the inquiry, if it exists in this case at all, would be comparatively weak. Cf. Meyer v. Holley, 537 U. S. 280, 286 (2003) ("Congress' silence, while permitting an inference that Congress intended to apply ordinary background tort principles, cannot show that it intended to apply an unusual modification of those rules").8     Second, even if the background principle had previously been applied in the manner sought by respondents, Congress provided express indications that it did not want the principle to apply to the mass action provision. It specified that "the term 'mass action' shall not include any civil action in which . . . the claims are joined upon motion of a defendant." §1332(d)(11)(B)(ii)(II). By prohibiting defendants from joining unnamed individuals to a lawsuit in order to turn it into a mass action, Congress demonstrated its focus on the persons who are actually proposing to join together as named plaintiffs in the suit. Requiring district courts to pierce the pleadings to identify unnamed persons interested in the suit would run afoul of that intent. Moreover, as already discussed, Congress repeatedly used the word "plaintiffs" to describe the 100 or more persons whose claims must be proposed for a joint trial. That word refers to actual, named parties--a concept inherently at odds with the background inquiry into unnamed real parties in interest, who by definition are never plaintiffs. Congress thus clearly displaced a background real party in interest inquiry, even assuming one might otherwise apply. Cf. Barnhart v. Sigmon Coal Co., 534 U. S. 438, 459, n. 16 (2002).*??*??*     For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESThe Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act of 1994 (FAAAA) preempts state laws "related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier . . . with respect to the transportation of property." 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1). This provision borrows from the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 (ADA), which preempts state laws "related to a price, route, or service of an air carrier," §41713(b)(1), but it adds the important qualification, "with respect to transportation of property."          Plaintiff-respondent Pelkey brought suit in New Hampshire Superior Court, alleging that defendant-petitioner Dan's City Used Cars (Dan's City), a towing company, took custody of his car after towing it from his landlord's parking lot without Pelkey's knowledge, failed to notify him of its plan to auction the car, held an auction despite Pelkey's notice that he wanted to reclaim the car, and eventually traded the car away without compensating Pelkey for the loss of his vehicle. In disposing of his car, Pelkey further alleged, Dan's City did not meet the requirements contained in chapter 262 of the New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated, which regulates the disposal of abandoned vehicles by a "storage company." Dan's City's misconduct, Pelkey charged, both violated New Hampshire's Consumer Protection Act and breached the towing company's statutory and common-law duties as a bailee to use reasonable care while in possession of a bailor's property. The court granted summary judgment to Dan's City, concluding that the FAAAA preempted Pelkey's claims. The New Hampshire Supreme Court reversed. It held the FAAAA's preemption clause inapplicable because Pelkey's claims related to Dan's City's conduct in disposing of his car post-storage, not to conduct concerning "the transportation of property," or a towing company's "service."Held: Section 14501(c)(1) does not preempt state-law claims stemming from the storage and disposal of a towed vehicle. Pp. 7-13.     (a) Where Congress has superseded state legislation by statute, this Court's task is to "identify the domain expressly pre-empted," Lorillard Tobacco Co. v. Reilly, 533 U. S. 525, 541, focusing first on the statutory language, CSX Transp., Inc. v. Easterwood, 507 U. S. 658, 664. In Rowe v. New Hampshire Motor Transp. Assn., 552 U. S. 364, 370, this Court's reading of §14501(c)(1) was informed by decisions interpreting parallel language in the ADA's preemption clause. Thus, the Court held, the phrase "related to" embraces state laws "having a connection with or reference to" carrier " 'rates, routes, or services,' " whether directly or indirectly. Ibid. At the same time, the breadth of the words "related to" does not mean that the preemption clause should be read with an "uncritical literalism." New York State Conference of Blue Cross & Blue Shield Plans v. Travelers Ins. Co., 514 U. S. 645, 655-656. The Court has cautioned that §14501(c)(1) does not preempt state laws affecting carrier prices, routes, and services "in only a 'tenuous, remote, or peripheral . . . manner.' " Rowe, 552 U. S., at 371. Pp. 7-8.     (b) Pelkey's state-law claims escape preemption because they are "related to" neither the "transportation of property" nor the "service" of a motor carrier. Although §14501(c)(1) otherwise tracks the ADA's air-carrier preemption provision, the FAAAA formulation's one conspicuous alteration--addition of the words "with respect to the transportation of property"--significantly limits the FAAAA's preemptive scope. It is not sufficient for a state law to relate to the "price, route, or service" of a motor carrier in any capacity; the law must also concern a motor carrier's "transportation of property." Title 49 defines "transportation," in relevant part, as "services related to th[e] movement" of property, "including arranging for . . . storage [and] handling." §13102(23)(B). Pelkey's Consumer Protection Act and negligence claims are not "related to th[e] movement" of his car. Chapter 262 regulates the disposal of vehicles once their transportation--here, by towing--has ended. Pelkey seeks redress only for conduct occurring after the car ceased moving and was stored. Dan's City maintains that because §13102(23)(B)'s definition of "transportation" includes "storage" and "handling," Pelkey's claims fall within §14501(c)(1)'s preemptive ambit. But "storage" and "handling" fit within §13102(23)(B)'s definition only when those services "relat[e] to th[e] movement" of property. Thus temporary storage of an item in transit en route to its final destination qualifies as "transportation," but permanent storage does not. Here, no storage occurred in the course of transporting Pelkey's vehicle.     Pelkey's claims are also unrelated to a "service" a motor carrier renders its customers. The transportation service Dan's City pro-vided--removal of Pelkey's car from his landlord's parking lot--did involve the movement of property, but that service ended months before the conduct on which Pelkey's claims are based. Because chapter 262, on which Pelkey relies, addresses "storage compan[ies]" and "garage owner[s] or keeper[s]," not transportation activities, it has neither a direct nor an indirect connection to transportation services a motor carrier offers its customers. See Rowe, 552 U. S., at 371.     The conclusion that state-law claims regarding disposal of towed vehicles are not preempted is in full accord with Congress' purpose in enacting §14501(c)(1), which was to displace "a State's direct substitution of its own governmental commands for 'competitive market forces' in determining . . . the services that motor carriers will provide." Id., at 372. The New Hampshire prescriptions Pelkey invokes hardly constrain participation in interstate commerce by requiring a motor carrier to offer services not available in the market. Nor do they "freez[e] into place services that carriers might prefer to discontinue in the future." Ibid. Pp. 8-11.     (c) Dan's City's additional arguments in favor of preemption are not persuasive. Dan's City contends that because none of Pelkey's claims fit within the exceptions to preemption detailed in 49 U. S. C. §§14501(c)(2), (3), and (5), his claims must be preempted. But exceptions, while sometimes a helpful interpretive guide, do not in themselves delineate the scope of the rule. Here, the exceptions identify matters a State may regulate when it would otherwise be precluded from doing so, but they do not control more than that.     Dan's City also maintains that Pelkey's claims are "related to" its towing service because selling Pelkey's car was the means by which Dan's City obtained payment for the tow. If such state-law claims were preempted, no law would govern resolution of a non-contract-based dispute arising from a towing company's disposal of a vehicle previously towed or afford a remedy for wrongful disposal. No such design can be attributed to a rational Congress. See Silkwood v. Kerr-McGee Corp., 464 U. S. 238, 251. Pp. 11-13.163 N. H. 483, 44 A. 3d 480, affirmed.     Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Opinion of the Court?569 U. S. ____ (2013)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 12-52DAN'S CITY USED CARS, INC., dba DAN'S CITY AUTO BODY, PETITIONER v. ROBERT PELKEYon writ of certiorari to the supreme court of new hampshire[May 13, 2013]     Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.     This case concerns the preemptive scope of a provision of the Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act of 1994 (FAAAA or Act) applicable to motor carriers. Codified at 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1), the provision reads:"[A] State . . . may not enact or enforce a law, regulation, or other provision having the force and effect of law related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier . . . with respect to the transportation of property."Plaintiff-respondent Robert Pelkey brought suit under New Hampshire law against defendant-petitioner Dan's City Used Cars (Dan's City), a towing company. Pelkey alleged that Dan's City took custody of his car after towing it without Pelkey's knowledge, failed to notify him of its plan to auction the car, held an auction despite Pelkey's communication that he wanted to arrange for the car's return, and eventually traded the car away without compensating Pelkey for the loss of his vehicle.     Disposal of abandoned vehicles by a "storage company" is regulated by chapter 262 of the New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated. See N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§262:31 to 262:40-c (West 2004 and 2012 West Cum. Supp.). Dan's City relied on those laws to dispose of Pelkey's vehicle for nonpayment of towing and storage fees. According to Pelkey, however, Dan's City failed to comply with New Hampshire's provisions governing the sale of stored vehicles and the application of sale proceeds. Pelkey charged that Dan's City's disposal of his car without following the requirements contained in chapter 262 violated the New Hampshire Consumer Protection Act, §358-A:2 (West 2009), as well as Dan's City's statutory and common-law duties as bailee to exercise reasonable care while in possession of a bailor's property.     We hold, in accord with the New Hampshire Supreme Court, that state-law claims stemming from the storage and disposal of a car, once towing has ended, are not sufficiently connected to a motor carrier's service with respect to the transportation of property to warrant preemption under §14501(c)(1). The New Hampshire law in point regulates no towing services, no carriage of property. Instead, it trains on custodians of stored vehicles seeking to sell them. Congress did not displace the State's regulation of that activity by any federal prescription.IA     The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 (ADA), 92 Stat. 1705, largely deregulated the domestic airline industry. In keeping with the statute's aim to achieve "maximum reliance on competitive market forces," id., at 1706, Congress sought to "ensure that the States would not undo federal deregulation with regulation of their own." Morales v. Trans World Airlines, Inc., 504 U. S. 374, 378 (1992). Congress therefore included a preemption provision, now codified at 49 U. S. C. §41713(b)(1), prohibiting States from enacting or enforcing any law "related to a price, route, or service of an air carrier."     Two years later, the Motor Carrier Act of 1980, 94 Stat. 793, extended deregulation to the trucking industry. Congress completed the deregulation 14 years thereafter, in 1994, by expressly preempting state trucking regulation. Congress did so upon finding that state governance of intrastate transportation of property had become "unreasonably burden[some]" to "free trade, interstate commerce, and American consumers." Columbus v. Ours Ga- rage & Wrecker Service, Inc., 536 U. S. 424, 440 (2002) (citing FAAAA §601(a)(1), 108 Stat. 1605). Borrowing from the ADA's preemption clause, but adding a new qualification, §601(c) of the FAAAA supersedes state laws "related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier . . . with respect to the transportation of property." 108 Stat. 1606, now codified at 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1) (emphasis added).1 The Act exempts certain measures from its preemptive scope, including state laws regulating motor vehicle safety, size, and weight; motor carrier insurance; and the intrastate transportation of household goods. §§14501(c)(2)(A)-(B). Also exempted from preemption are state laws "relating to the price" of "vehicle transportation by a tow truck," if towing occurs without prior consent of the vehicle owner. §14501(c)(2)(C).     This case involves the interaction between the FAAAA's preemption clause and the State of New Hampshire's regulation of the removal, storage, and disposal of abandoned motor vehicles. Chapter 262 of the New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated establishes procedures by which an "authorized official" or the "owner . . . of any private property . . . on which a vehicle is parked without permission" may arrange to have the vehicle towed and stored. N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§262:31 to 262:34, 262:40-a(I). It generally makes the owner of a towed vehicle responsible for reasonable removal and storage fees. See §262:33(I) (reasonable removal and storage charges "shall be a lien against the vehicle which shall be paid by the owner"); §262:33(II) (owner entitled to recover vehicle after "payment of all reasonable towing and storage charges"); §262:40-a(II) (owner of a vehicle towed from a parking lot or parking garage is responsible for "removal and storage charges" when the lot or garage conspicuously posts notice of parking restrictions).     Under chapter 262, the custodian of a car that remains unclaimed for 30 days following a tow may dispose of the vehicle upon compliance with notice requirements. §§262:36-a(I), (II). A "garage owner or keeper" must post notices of an impending sale in public places and provide mail notice to the vehicle owner whenever the owner's address may "be ascertained . . . by the exercise of reasonable diligence." §262:38. If a towed vehicle is not fit for legal use, its custodian need not provide individual or public notice prior to disposal, and sale of the vehicle may occur upon written notice to and approval from New Hampshire's Department of Public Safety. §262:36-a(III).2     On compliance with the statutory requirements, the custodian of a stored vehicle may sell the vehicle by public auction at its place of business. §262:37. The storage company may use the sale proceeds to pay "the amount of the liens and the reasonable expenses incident to the sale." §262:39 (West 2004). Remaining proceeds are payable "to the [vehicle's] owner . . . if claimed at any time within one year from the date of sale." Ibid.B     The landlord of the apartment complex in which Pelkey lived required tenants to remove their cars from the parking lot in the event of a snowstorm, so that the snow could be cleared. Pelkey's 2004 Honda Civic remained in the lot during and after a February 2007 snowstorm. At the landlord's request, Dan's City towed and stored the vehicle. Confined to his bed with a serious medical condition, Pelkey did not know his car had been towed. Soon after removal of his car, Pelkey was admitted to the hospital for a procedure to amputate his left foot, during which he suffered a heart attack. He remained under hospital care until his discharge on April 9, 2007.     Unaware of Pelkey's identity or illness, Dan's City sought permission from New Hampshire's Department of Public Safety to sell the Honda at auction without notice. In response, the department identified Pelkey as the last known owner of the vehicle. Dan's City wrote to Pelkey, notifying him that it had towed and was storing his car. When the post office returned the letter, checking the box "moved, left no address," Dan's City scheduled an auction for April 19. Meanwhile, in the days following Pelkey's discharge from the hospital, his attorney learned from counsel for the apartment complex that the car had been towed by Dan's City and was scheduled to be sold at public auction. On April 17, Pelkey's attorney informed Dan's City that Pelkey wanted to pay any charges owed and reclaim his vehicle. Dan's City nevertheless proceeded with the auction. Attracting no bidders, Dan's City later disposed of the car by trading it to a third party. Pelkey was not notified in advance of the trade, and has received no proceeds from the sale.     Pelkey brought suit against Dan's City in New Hampshire Superior Court. He alleged that Dan's City violated the New Hampshire Consumer Protection Act, N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §358-A:2, by failing to comply with chapter 262's requirements for disposal of stored vehicles, making false statements about the condition and value of his Honda, and proceeding with the auction despite notice that Pelkey wanted to reclaim the car.3 He also alleged that Dan's City negligently breached both statutory and common-law duties as a bailee to use reasonable care in disposing of the car. Granting summary judgment to Dan's City, the New Hampshire Superior Court concluded that Pelkey's claims were preempted by the FAAAA.     The New Hampshire Supreme Court reversed. It held the FAAAA's preemption clause, 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1), inapplicable because Pelkey's claims related to Dan's City's conduct in disposing of his Honda post-storage, not to conduct concerning "the transportation of property." 163 N. H. 483, 490-493, 44 A. 3d 480, 487-489 (2012) (emphasis deleted). Alternatively, the court ruled that, even if Pelkey's claims could be said to concern the transportation of property, they did not "sufficiently relat[e] to a towing company's 'service' to be preempted." Id., at 493, 44 A. 3d, at 490.     We granted certiorari to resolve a division of opinion in state supreme courts on whether 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1) preempts a vehicle owner's state-law claims against a towing company regarding the company's post-towing disposal of the vehicle. 568 U. S. ___ (2012). Compare 163 N. H. 483, 44 A. 3d 480 (this case), with Weatherspoon v. Tillery Body Shop, Inc., 44 So. 3d 447, 458 (Ala. 2010) (§14501(c)(1) preempts state statutory and common-law claims arising out of storage and sale of a towed vehicle).IIA     Where, as in this case, Congress has superseded state legislation by statute, our task is to "identify the domain expressly pre-empted." Lorillard Tobacco Co. v. Reilly, 533 U. S. 525, 541 (2001). To do so, we focus first on the statutory language, "which necessarily contains the best evidence of Congress' pre-emptive intent." CSX Transp., Inc. v. Easterwood, 507 U. S. 658, 664 (1993).     The FAAAA's preemption clause prohibits enforcement of state laws "related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier . . . with respect to the transportation of property." 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1). In Rowe v. New Hampshire Motor Transp. Assn., 552 U. S. 364, 370 (2008), our reading of this language was informed by decisions interpreting the parallel language in the ADA's preemption clause. The phrase "related to," we said, embraces state laws "having a connection with or reference to" carrier " 'rates, routes, or services,' " whether directly or indirectly. Ibid. (quoting Morales, 504 U. S., at 384; emphasis deleted). See also id., at 383 ("ordinary meaning of . . . words ['related to'] is a broad one," thus ADA's use of those words "expresses a broad pre-emptive purpose").     At the same time, the breadth of the words "related to" does not mean the sky is the limit. We have refused to read the preemption clause of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, 29 U. S. C. §1144(a), which supersedes state laws "relate[d] to any employee benefit plan," with an "uncritical literalism," else "for all practical purposes pre-emption would never run its course." New York State Conference of Blue Cross & Blue Shield Plans v. Travelers Ins. Co., 514 U. S. 645, 655-656 (1995) (internal quotation marks omitted). And we have cautioned that §14501(c)(1) does not preempt state laws affecting carrier prices, routes, and services "in only a 'tenuous, remote, or peripheral . . . manner.' " Rowe, 552 U. S., at 371 (quoting Morales, 504 U. S., at 390).B     The New Hampshire Supreme Court concluded that Pelkey's state-law claims are "related to" neither the "transportation of property" nor the "service" of a motor carrier. We agree.     Pelkey's claims escape preemption, we hold, because they are not "related to" the service of a motor carrier "with respect to the transportation of property." §14501(c)(1). Although §14501(c)(1) otherwise tracks the ADA's air-carrier preemption provision, see Rowe, 552 U. S., at 370, the FAAAA formulation contains one conspicuous alteration--the addition of the words "with respect to the transportation of property." That phrase "massively limits the scope of preemption" ordered by the FAAAA. Ours Garage, 536 U. S., at 449 (Scalia, J., dissenting).4 As the New Hampshire Supreme Court correctly understood, for purposes of FAAAA preemption, it is not sufficient that a state law relates to the "price, route, or service" of a motor carrier in any capacity; the law must also concern a motor carrier's "transportation of property." See 163 N. H., at 490, 44 A. 3d, at 487.     Title 49 defines "transportation," in relevant part, as "services related to th[e] movement" of property, "including arranging for, receipt, delivery, elevation, transfer in transit, refrigeration, icing, ventilation, storage, handling, packing, unpacking, and interchange of passengers and property." §13102(23)(B). Pelkey's Consumer Protection Act and negligence claims are not "related to th[e] movement" of his car. Ibid. (emphasis added). He charges Dan's City with failure to comply with chapter 262 and neglect of its statutory and common-law duties of care as a bailee of his stored vehicle. Chapter 262 does not limit when, where, or how tow trucks may be operated. The Chapter regulates, instead, the disposal of vehicles once their transportation--here, by towing--has ended. Pelkey does not object to the manner in which his car was moved or the price of the tow; he seeks redress only for conduct subsequent to "transportation," conduct occurring after the car ceased moving and was stored.     Dan's City maintains that because §13102(23)(B)'s definition of "transportation" includes "storage" and "handling," Pelkey's claims, which do concern the storage and handling of his car, fall within §14501(c)(1)'s preemptive ambit. Dan's City overlooks, however, that under §13102(23)(B), services such as "storage" and "handling" fit within the definition of "transportation" only when those services "relat[e] to th[e] movement" of property. Temporary storage of an item in transit en route to its final destination relates to the movement of property and therefore fits within §13102(23)(B)'s definition. But property stored after delivery is no longer in transit. Cf. 49 CFR §375.609 (2012) (distinguishing between "storage-in-transit" and "permanent storage" (regulation of Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration)). Here, no storage occurred in the course of transporting Pelkey's vehicle. Dan's City's storage of Pelkey's car after the towing job was done, in short, does not involve "transportation" within the meaning of the federal Act.     Pelkey's claims also survive preemption under §14501(c)(1) because they are unrelated to a "service" a motor carrier renders its customers. The transportation service Dan's City provided was the removal of Pelkey's car from his landlord's parking lot. That service, which did involve the movement of property, ended months before the conduct on which Pelkey's claims are based. His claims rely on New Hampshire's abandoned vehicle disposal regime, prescribed in chapter 262, for the rules governing Dan's City's conduct.5 Chapter 262 addresses "storage compan[ies]" and "garage owner[s] or keeper[s]," not transportation activities. See N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§262:36-a, 262:38. Unlike Maine's tobacco delivery regulations at issue in Rowe, chapter 262 has neither a direct nor an indirect connection to any transportation services a motor carrier offers its customers. See 552 U. S., at 371. We need not venture an all-purposes definition of transportation "service[s]" in order to conclude that state-law claims homing in on the disposal of stored vehicles fall outside §14501(c)(1)'s preemptive compass.     Our conclusion that state-law claims regarding disposal of towed vehicles are not preempted is in full accord with Congress' purpose in enacting §14501(c)(1). Concerned that state regulation "impeded the free flow of trade, traffic, and transportation of interstate commerce," Congress resolved to displace "certain aspects of the State regulatory process." FAAAA §601(a), 108 Stat. 1605 (emphasis added). The target at which it aimed was "a State's direct substitution of its own governmental commands for competitive market forces in determining (to a significant degree) the services that motor carriers will provide." Rowe, 552 U. S., at 372 (internal quotation marks omitted).     Pelkey's claims are far removed from Congress' driving concern. He sued under state consumer protection and tort laws to gain compensation for the alleged unlawful disposal of his vehicle. The state laws in question hardly constrain participation in interstate commerce by requiring a motor carrier to offer services not available in the market. Nor do the state laws invoked by Pelkey "freez[e] into place services that carriers might prefer to discontinue in the future." Ibid. New Hampshire's laws on disposal of stored vehicles, moreover, will not open the way for "a patchwork of state service-determining laws, rules, and regulations." Id., at 373. As Dan's City concedes, abandoned vehicle laws like chapter 262 "do not hamper the operations of tow truckers" and "are not the kind of burdensome state economic regulation Congress sought to preempt." Reply Brief 21.C     Dan's City advances two further arguments in favor of preemption. First, Dan's City contends that Congress' enumeration of exceptions to preemption, detailed in 49 U. S. C. §§14501(c)(2), (3), and (5), permits state regulation of motor carriers only when the State's law comes within a specified exception. Because Pelkey's claims do not fit within any exception to preemption, Dan's City urges, those claims must be preempted. This argument exceeds sensible bounds. Exceptions to a general rule, while sometimes a helpful interpretive guide, do not in themselves delineate the scope of the rule. The exceptions to §14501(c)(1)'s general rule of preemption identify matters a State may regulate when it would otherwise be precluded from doing so, but they do not control more than that.     An example may clarify the point. Section 14501(c) does not exempt zoning regulations. Such laws, however, "are peculiarly within the province of state and local legislative authorities." Warth v. Seldin, 422 U. S. 490, 508, n. 18 (1975). It is hardly doubtful that state or local regulation of the physical location of motor-carrier operations falls outside the preemptive sweep of §14501(c)(1). That is so because zoning ordinances ordinarily are not "related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier . . . with respect to the transportation of property." §14501(c)(1). The same is true of New Hampshire's regulation of the disposal of stored vehicles.     Dan's City, in a second argument, urges otherwise. Pelkey's claims, Dan's City maintains, are "related to" the towing service it rendered because selling Pelkey's car was the means by which Dan's City obtained payment for the tow. But if such state-law claims are preempted, no law would govern resolution of a non-contract-based dispute arising from a towing company's disposal of a vehicle previously towed or afford a remedy for wrongful disposal. Federal law does not speak to these issues.6 Thus, not only would the preemption urged by Dan's City leave vehicle owners without any recourse for damages, it would eliminate the sole legal authorization for a towing company's disposal of stored vehicles that go unclaimed. No such design can be attributed to a rational Congress. See Silkwood v. Kerr-McGee Corp., 464 U. S. 238, 251 (1984) ("It is difficult to believe that Congress would, without comment, remove all means of judicial recourse for those injured by illegal conduct.").     In sum, Dan's City cannot have it both ways. It cannot rely on New Hampshire's regulatory framework as authorization for the sale of Pelkey's car, yet argue that Pelkey's claims, invoking the same state-law regime, are preempted. New Hampshire's legislation on abandoned vehicles gave rise to Pelkey's debt and established the conditions under which Dan's City could collect on that debt by selling Pelkey's Honda. See N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§262:33, 262:36-a, 262:40-a; supra, at 3-5. Pelkey's claims, attacking Dan's City's conduct in disposing of the vehicle, rest on the very same provisions. See Brief for Petitioner 41 ("All of the alleged wrongful conduct of Dan's City was part of the state sanctioned and regulated process for disposing of abandoned vehicles under Ch. 262.").*??*??*     For the reasons stated, we hold that 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1) does not preempt state-law claims for damages stemming from the storage and disposal of a towed vehicle. The judgment of the New Hampshire Supreme Court is therefore affirmed.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESThe Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA), 21 U. S. C. §601 et seq., regulates a broad range of activities at slaughterhouses to ensure the safety of meat and the humane handling of animals. The Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), which administers the FMIA, has issued extensive regulations to govern the inspection of animals and meat, as well as other aspects of slaughterhouses' operations and facilities. See 9 CFR §300.1 et seq. The FSIS inspection procedure begins with an "ante-mortem" inspection of each animal brought to a slaughterhouse. If, at that inspection, a nonambulatory animal is found to suffer from a particularly severe disease or condition, it must be classified as "U. S. Condemned" and killed apart from the slaughtering facilities where food is produced. §§309.3, 311.1 et seq. Nonambulatory animals that are not condemned are classified as "U. S. Suspect." §309.2(b). They are set apart, specially monitored, and "slaughtered separately from other livestock." §309.2(n). Following slaughter, an inspector decides at a "post-mortem" examination which parts, if any, of the suspect animal's carcass may be processed into food for humans. See 9 CFR pts. 310, 311. FSIS regulations additionally prescribe methods for handling animals humanely at all stages of the slaughtering process, 9 CFR pt. 313, including specific provisions for the humane treatment of nonambulatory animals, 9 CFR 313.2(d).          The FMIA's preemption clause, §678, precludes states from imposing requirements that are "within the scope" of the FMIA, relate to slaughterhouse "premises, facilities and operations," and are "in addition to, or different than those made under" the FMIA. In 2008, California amended its penal code to provide that no slaughterhouse shall "buy, sell, or receive a nonambulatory animal"; "process, butcher, or sell meat or products of nonambulatory animals for human consumption"; or "hold a nonambulatory animal without taking immediate action to humanely euthanize the animal." §§599f(a)-(c). Petitioner National Meat Association (NMA), a trade association representing meatpackers and processors, sued to enjoin enforcement of §599f against swine slaughterhouses, arguing that the FMIA preempts application of the state law. The District Court agreed, and granted the NMA a preliminary injunction. The Ninth Circuit reversed, holding that §599f is not preempted because it regulates only "the kind of animal that may be slaughtered," not the inspection or slaughtering process itself.Held: The FMIA expressly preempts §599f's application against federally inspected swine slaughterhouses. Pp. 6?14.     (a) The FMIA's preemption clause sweeps widely, and so blocks the applications of §599f challenged here. The clause prevents a State from imposing any additional or different?even if nonconflicting?requirements that fall within the FMIA's scope and concern slaughterhouse facilities or operations. Section 599f imposes additional or different requirements on swine slaughterhouses: Where under federal law a slaughterhouse may take one course of action in handling a nonambulatory pig, under state law the slaughterhouse must take another. For example, when a pig becomes injured and thus nonambulatory sometime after delivery to a slaughterhouse, §599f(c) prohibits the slaughterhouse from "hold[ing]" the pig without immediately euthanizing it; and §599f(b) prohibits the slaughterhouse from "process[ing]" or "butcher[ing]" the animal to make food. By contrast, the FMIA and its regulations allow a slaughterhouse to hold (without euthanizing) any nonambulatory animal that has not been condemned, and to process and butcher such an animal's meat, subject to an FSIS official's approval at post-mortem inspection. Similarly, when a pig is nonambulatory at the time of delivery, §599f(a) prohibits a slaughterhouse from "receiv[ing]" or "buy[ing]" the pig. But the FMIA and its regulations expressly allow slaughterhouses to purchase nonambulatory pigs. See 21 U. S. C. §644; 9 CFR §325.20(c). And the FSIS inspection regime clearly contemplates that slaughterhouses will receive nonambulatory animals. So §599f substitutes a new regulatory regime for the one the FMIA prescribes.     Respondent Humane Society argues that §599f(a)'s ban on purchasing nonambulatory animals escapes preemption because it would not be preempted if applied to purchases occurring off slaughterhouse premises. But the record does not disclose whether §599f(a) ever applies beyond the slaughterhouse gate, much less how an application of that kind would affect a slaughterhouse's operations. Moreover, even if the State could regulate off-site purchases, it does not follow that on-site purchases would escape preemption, because the FMIA's preemption clause expressly focuses on slaughterhouse "premises, facilities and operations." And while the Humane Society is correct that the FMIA does not normally regulate slaughterhouse sales activities, §599f's sales ban serves to regulate how slaughterhouses must handle nonambulatory pigs on their premises. Its effect is to make sure that slaughterhouses remove nonambulatory pigs from the production process. It is therefore preempted by the FMIA. Pp. 6?10.     (b) Also rejected is the broad argument that §599f's challenged provisions fall outside the FMIA's scope because they exclude a class of animals from the slaughtering process, while the FMIA extends only to "animals that are going to be turned into meat." In fact, the FMIA regulates animals on slaughterhouse premises that will never be turned into meat. For example, the Act's implementing regulations exclude many classes of animals from the slaughtering process, e.g., swine with hog cholera, 9 CFR §309.5(a). The argument that §599f's exclusion avoids the FMIA's scope because it is designed to ensure the humane treatment of pigs, rather than meat safety, misunderstands the FMIA's scope. The FMIA addresses not just food safety, but humane treatment, as well. See, e.g., 21 U. S. C. §§603, 610(b). Pp. 11?14.599 F. 3d 1093, reversed and remanded.     Kagan, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Opinion of the Court?565 U. S. ____ (2012)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 10-224NATIONAL MEAT ASSOCIATION, PETITIONER v. KAMALA D. HARRIS, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF CALIFORNIA, et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[January 23, 2012]     Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the Court.     The Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA or Act), 21 U. S. C. §601 et seq., regulates the inspection, handling, and slaughter of livestock for human consumption. We consider here whether the FMIA expressly preempts a California law dictating what slaughterhouses must do with pigs that cannot walk, known in the trade as nonambulatory pigs. We hold that the FMIA forecloses the challenged applications of the state statute.IA     The FMIA regulates a broad range of activities at slaughterhouses to ensure both the safety of meat and the humane handling of animals.1 First enacted in 1906, after Upton Sinclair's muckraking novel The Jungle sparked an uproar over conditions in the meatpacking industry, the Act establishes "an elaborate system of inspecti[ng]" live animals and carcasses in order "to prevent the shipment of impure, unwholesome, and unfit meat and meat-food products." Pittsburgh Melting Co. v. Totten, 248 U. S. 1, 4-5 (1918). And since amended in 1978, see 92 Stat. 1069, the FMIA requires all slaughterhouses to comply with the standards for humane handling and slaughter of animals set out in the Humane Methods of Slaughter Act of 1958, (HMSA), 72 Stat. 862, 7 U. S. C. §1901 et seq., which originally applied only to slaughterhouses selling meat to the Federal Government.     The Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) has responsibility for administering the FMIA to promote its dual goals of safe meat and humane slaughter. Over the years, the FSIS has issued extensive regulations to govern the inspection of animals and meat, as well as other aspects of slaughterhouses' operations and facilities. See 9 CFR §300.1 et seq. (2011). The FSIS employs about 9,000 inspectors, veterinarians, and investigators to implement its inspection regime and enforce its humane-handling requirements. See Hearings on 2012 Appropriations before the Subcommittee on Agriculture of the House Committee on Appropriations, 112th Cong., 1st Sess., pt. 1B, p. 921 (2011). In fiscal year 2010, those personnel examined about 147 million head of livestock and carried out more than 126,000 "humane handling verification procedures." Id., at 942-943.     The FSIS's inspection procedure begins with an "ante-mortem" examination of each animal brought to a slaughterhouse. See 9 CFR §309.1. If the inspector finds no evidence of disease or injury, he approves the animal for slaughter. If, at the other end of the spectrum, the inspector sees that an animal is dead or dying, comatose, suffering from a high fever, or afflicted with a serious disease or condition, he designates the animal as "U. S. Condemned." See §309.3; §311.1 et seq. (listing diseases requiring condemnation). A condemned animal (if not already dead) must be killed apart from the slaughtering facilities where food is produced, and no part of its carcass may be sold for human consumption. See §309.13(a); 21 U. S. C. §610(c).     The inspector also has an intermediate option: If he determines that an animal has a less severe condition--or merely suspects the animal of having a disease meriting condemnation--he classifies the animal as "U. S. Suspect." See 9 CFR §309.2. That category includes all nonambulatory animals not found to require condemnation.2 See §309.2(b). Suspect livestock must be "set apart," specially monitored, and (if not reclassified because of a change in condition) "slaughtered separately from other livestock." §309.2(n). Following slaughter, an inspector decides at a "post-mortem" examination which parts, if any, of the suspect animal's carcass may be processed into food for humans. See 9 CFR pts. 310, 311.     The regulations implementing the FMIA additionally prescribe methods for handling animals humanely at all stages of the slaughtering process. Those rules apply from the moment a truck carrying livestock "enters, or is in line to enter," a slaughterhouse's premises. Humane Handling and Slaughter of Livestock, FSIS Directive 6900.2, ch. II(I) (rev. Aug. 15, 2011). And they include specific provisions for the humane treatment of animals that cannot walk. See 9 CFR §313.2(d). Under the regulations, slaughterhouse employees may not drag conscious, nonambulatory animals, see §313.2(d)(2), and may move them only with "equipment suitable for such purposes," §313.2(d)(3). Similarly, employees must place nonambulatory animals, as well as other sick and disabled livestock, in covered pens sufficient to protect the animals from "adverse climatic conditions." See §313.2(d)(1); §313.1(c).     The FMIA contains an express preemption provision, at issue here, addressing state laws on these and similar matters. That provision's first sentence reads:"Requirements within the scope of this [Act] with respect to premises, facilities and operations of any establishment at which inspection is provided under . . . this [Act] which are in addition to, or different than those made under this [Act] may not be imposed by any State." 21 U. S. C. §678.3B     In 2008, the Humane Society of the United States released an undercover video showing workers at a slaughterhouse in California dragging, kicking, and electro-shocking sick and disabled cows in an effort to move them. The video led the Federal Government to institute the largest beef recall in U. S. history in order to prevent consumption of meat from diseased animals. Of greater relevance here, the video also prompted the California legislature to strengthen a pre-existing statute governing the treatment of nonambulatory animals and to apply that statute to slaughterhouses regulated under the FMIA. See National Meat Assn. v. Brown, 599 F. 3d 1093, 1096 (CA9 2010).     As amended, the California law--§599f of the state penal code--provides in relevant part:     "(a) No slaughterhouse, stockyard, auction, market agency, or dealer shall buy, sell, or receive a nonambulatory animal.     "(b) No slaughterhouse shall process, butcher, or sell meat or products of nonambulatory animals for human consumption.     "(c) No slaughterhouse shall hold a nonambulatory animal without taking immediate action to humanely euthanize the animal." Cal. Penal Code Ann. §599f (West 2010).The maximum penalty for violating any of these prohibitions is one year in jail and a $20,000 fine. See §599f(h).     Petitioner National Meat Association (NMA) is a trade association representing meatpackers and processors, in-cluding operators of swine slaughterhouses. It sued to enjoin the enforcement of §599f against those slaughterhouses, principally on the ground that the FMIA preempts application of the state law.4 The District Court granted the NMA's motion for a preliminary injunction, reasoning that §599f is expressly preempted because it requires swine "to be handled in a manner other than that prescribed by the FMIA" and its regulations. App. to Pet. for Cert. 36a. But the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit vacated the injunction. According to that court, the FMIA does not expressly preempt §599f because the state law regulates only "the kind of animal that may be slaughtered," and not the inspection or slaughtering process itself. 599 F. 3d, at 1098.     We granted certiorari, 564 U. S. __ (2011), and now reverse.II     The FMIA's preemption clause sweeps widely--and in so doing, blocks the applications of §599f challenged here. The clause prevents a State from imposing any additional or different--even if non-conflicting--requirements that fall within the scope of the Act and concern a slaughterhouse's facilities or operations. And at every turn §599f imposes additional or different requirements on swine slaughterhouses: It compels them to deal with nonambulatory pigs on their premises in ways that the federal Act and regulations do not. In essence, California's statute substitutes a new regulatory scheme for the one the FSIS uses. Where under federal law a slaughterhouse may take one course of action in handling a nonambulatory pig, under state law the slaughterhouse must take another.     Consider first what the two statutes tell a slaughterhouse to do when (as not infrequently occurs) a pig becomes injured and thus nonambulatory sometime after delivery to the slaughterhouse.5 Section 599f(c) prohibits the slaughterhouse from "hold[ing]" such an animal "without taking immediate action to humanely euthanize" it. And §599f(b) provides that no part of the animal's carcass may be "process[ed]" or "butcher[ed]" to make food. By contrast, under the FMIA and its regulations, a slaughterhouse may hold (without euthanizing) any nonambulatory pig that has not been condemned. See supra, at 3. And the slaughterhouse may process or butcher such an animal's meat for human consumption, subject to an FSIS official's approval at a post-mortem inspection. See ibid. The State's proscriptions thus exceed the FMIA's. To be sure, nothing in the federal Act requires what the state law forbids (or forbids what the state law requires); California is right to note that "[t]he FMIA does not mandate that 'U. S. Suspect' [nonambulatory] animals . . . be placed into the human food production process." Brief for State Respondents 31. But that is irrelevant, because the FMIA's preemption clause covers not just conflicting, but also different or additional state requirements. It therefore precludes California's effort in §§599f(b) and (c) to im-pose new rules, beyond any the FSIS has chosen to adopt, on what a slaughterhouse must do with a pig that be-comes nonambulatory during the production process.     Similarly, consider how the state and federal laws address what a slaughterhouse should do when a pig is non-ambulatory at the time of delivery, usually because of harsh transportation conditions.6 Section 599f(a) of the California law bars a slaughterhouse from "receiv[ing]" or "buy[ing]" such a pig, thus obligating the slaughterhouse to refuse delivery of the animal.7 But that directive, too, deviates from any imposed by federal law. A regulation issued under the FMIA specifically authorizes slaughterhouses to buy disabled or diseased animals (including nonambulatory swine), by exempting them from a general prohibition on such purchases. See 9 CFR §325.20(c). And other regulations contemplate that slaughterhouses will in fact take, rather than refuse, receipt of nonambulatory swine. Recall that the FMIA's regulations provide for the inspection of all pigs at delivery, see supra, at 2--in the case of nonambulatory pigs, often right on the truck, see Humane Handling and Slaughter of Livestock, FSIS Directive 6900.2, ch. II(I). They further instruct slaughterhouses to kill and dispose of any nonambulatory pigs labeled "condemned," and to slaughter separately those marked "suspect." See supra, at 3. In short, federal law establishes rules for handling and slaughtering nonam-bulatory pigs brought to a slaughterhouse, rather than ordering them returned to sender. So §599f(a) and the FMIA require different things of a slaughterhouse confronted with a delivery truck containing nonambulatory swine. The former says "do not receive or buy them"; the latter does not.     The Humane Society counters that at least §599f(a)'s ban on buying nonambulatory animals escapes preemption because that provision applies no matter when or where a purchase takes place. The argument proceeds in three steps: (1) §599f(a)'s ban covers purchases of non-ambulatory pigs made prior to delivery, away from the slaughterhouse itself (say, at a farm or auction); (2) the State may regulate such offsite purchases because they do not involve a slaughterhouse's "premises, facilities and operations," which is a condition of preemption under the FMIA; and (3) no different result should obtain just because a slaughterhouse structures its swine purchases to occur at delivery, on its own property. See Brief for Non-State Respondents 43-45.     But this argument fails on two grounds. First, its preliminary steps have no foundation in the record. Until a stray comment at oral argument, see Tr. of Oral Arg. 50, neither the State nor the Humane Society had disputed the NMA's assertion that slaughterhouses buy pigs at delivery (or still later, upon successful ante-mortem inspection). See Brief for Petitioner 46, n. 18; Brief for Non-State Respondents 44; Brief for State Respondents 16, n. 5. Nor had the parties presented evidence that a significant number of pigs become nonambulatory before shipment, when any offsite purchases would occur. The record therefore does not disclose whether §599f(a)'s ban on purchase ever applies beyond the slaughterhouse gate, much less how an application of that kind would affect a slaughterhouse's operations. And because that is so, we have no basis for deciding whether the FMIA would preempt it. Second, even assuming that a State could regulate offsite purchases, the concluding step of the Humane Society's argument would not follow. The FMIA's preemption clause expressly focuses on "premises, facilities and operations"--at bottom, the slaughtering and processing of animals at a given location. So the distinction between a slaughterhouse's site-based activities and its more far-flung commercial dealings is not, as the Humane Society contends, an anomaly that courts should strain to avoid. It is instead a fundamental feature of the FMIA's preemption clause.     For that reason, the Humane Society's stronger argument concerns California's effort to regulate the last stage of a slaughterhouse's business--the ban in §599f(b) on "sell[ing] meat or products of nonambulatory animals for human consumption." The Government acknowledges that the FMIA's preemption clause does not usually foreclose "state regulation of the commercial sales activities of slaughterhouses." Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 17. And the Humane Society asserts, in line with that general rule, that §599f(b)'s ban on sales does not regulate a slaughterhouse's "operations" because it kicks in only after they have ended: Once meat from a slaughtered pig has passed a post-mortem inspection, the Act "is not concerned with whether or how it is ever actually sold." Brief for Non-State Respondents 45. At most, the Humane Society claims, §599f(b)'s ban on sales offers an "incentiv[e]" to a slaughterhouse to take nonambulatory pigs out of the meat production process. Id., at 46. And California may so "motivate[]" an operational choice without running afoul of the FMIA's preemption provision. Ibid. (quoting Bates v. Dow Agrosciences LLC, 544 U. S. 431, 443 (2005)).     But this argument mistakes how the prohibition on sales operates within §599f as a whole. The sales ban is a criminal proscription calculated to help implement and enforce each of the section's other regulations--its prohibition of receipt and purchase, its bar on butchering and processing, and its mandate of immediate euthanasia. The idea--and the inevitable effect--of the provision is to make sure that slaughterhouses remove nonambulatory pigs from the production process (or keep them out of the process from the beginning) by criminalizing the sale of their meat. That, we think, is something more than an "incentive" or "motivat[or]"; the sales ban instead functions as a command to slaughterhouses to structure their operations in the exact way the remainder of §599f mandates. And indeed, if the sales ban were to avoid the FMIA's preemption clause, then any State could impose any regulation on slaughterhouses just by framing it as a ban on the sale of meat produced in whatever way the State disapproved. That would make a mockery of the FMIA's preemption provision. Cf. Engine Mfrs. Assn. v. South Coast Air Quality Management Dist., 541 U. S. 246, 255 (2004) (stating that it "would make no sense" to allow state regulations to escape preemption because they addressed the purchase, rather than manufacture, of a federally regulated product). Like the rest of §599f, the sales ban regulates how slaughterhouses must deal with non-ambulatory pigs on their premises. The FMIA therefore preempts it for all the same reasons.III     California's and the Humane Society's broadest argument against preemption maintains that all of §599f's challenged provisions fall outside the "scope" of the FMIA because they exclude a class of animals from the slaughtering process. See 21 U. S. C. §678 (preempting certain requirements "within the scope of this [Act]"). According to this view, the Act (and the FSIS's authority under it) extends only to "animals that are going to be turned into meat," Tr. of Oral Arg. 28--or to use another phrase, animals that will "be slaughtered . . . for purposes of human food production," Brief for State Respondents 19 (emphasis deleted). Section 599f avoids the scope of the Act, respondents claim, by altogether removing nonambulatory pigs from the slaughtering process.8 The Ninth Circuit accepted this argument, analogizing §599f to state laws upheld in two other Circuits banning the slaughter of horses for human consumption. 599 F. 3d, at 1098 (discussing Cavel Int'l., Inc. v. Madigan, 500 F. 3d 551 (CA7 2007), and Empacadora de Carnes de Fresnillo, S. A. de C.V. v. Curry, 476 F. 3d 326 (CA5 2007)). According to the Court of Appeals, "states are free to decide which animals may be turned into meat." 599 F. 3d, at 1098, 1099.     We think not. The FMIA's scope includes not only "animals that are going to be turned into meat," but animals on a slaughterhouse's premises that will never suffer that fate. The Act's implementing regulations themselves exclude many classes of animals from the slaughtering process. Swine with hog cholera, for example, are disqualified, see 9 CFR §309.5(a); so too are swine and other livestock "affected with anthrax," §309.7(a). Indeed, the federal regulations prohibit the slaughter of any nonambulatory cattle for human consumption. See §309.3(e). As these examples demonstrate, one vital function of the Act and its regulations is to ensure that some kinds of livestock delivered to a slaughterhouse's gates will not be turned into meat. Under federal law, nonambulatory pigs are not among those excluded animals. But that is to say only that §599f's requirements differ from those of the FMIA--not that §599f's requirements fall outside the FMIA's scope.     Nor are respondents right to suggest that §599f's exclusion avoids the FMIA's scope because it is designed to ensure the humane treatment of pigs, rather than the safety of meat. See, e.g., Brief for State Respondents 29; Brief for Non-State Respondents 39-40. That view misunderstands the authority--and indeed responsibility--that the FMIA gives to federal officials. Since 1978, when Congress incorporated the HMSA's standards, the FMIA has required slaughterhouses to follow prescribed methods of humane handling, so as to minimize animals' pain and suffering. See 21 U. S. C. §§603(b), 610(b); supra, at 2-4. A violation of those standards is a crime, see §676, and the Secretary of Agriculture can suspend inspections at--and thus effectively shut down--a slaughterhouse that dis-obeys them, see §§603(b), 610(c). To implement the Act's humane-handling provisions, the FSIS has issued detailed regulations, see 9 CFR pt. 313, including some specifically addressing animals that cannot walk, see §§313.2(d), 313.1(c). Those rules, as earlier noted, apply throughout the time an animal is on a slaughterhouse's premises, from the moment a delivery truck pulls up to the gate. See supra, at 3-4. So the FMIA addresses not just food safety, but humane treatment as well. Even California conceded at oral argument that the FSIS could issue regulations under the FMIA, similar to §599f, mandating the euthanasia of nonambulatory swine.9 See Tr. of Oral Arg. 46-47. If that is so--and it is, because of the FSIS's authority over humane-handling methods--then §599f's requirements must fall within the FMIA's scope.     The Circuit decisions upholding state bans on slaughtering horses, on which the Ninth Circuit relied, do not demand any different conclusion. We express no view on those decisions, except to say that the laws sustained there differ from §599f in a significant respect. A ban on butchering horses for human consumption works at a remove from the sites and activities that the FMIA most directly governs. When such a ban is in effect, no horses will be delivered to, inspected at, or handled by a slaughterhouse, because no horses will be ordered for purchase in the first instance. But §599f does not and cannot work in that way. As earlier noted, many nonambulatory pigs become disabled either in transit to or after arrival at a slaughterhouse. See supra, at 6-9, and nn. 5-6. So even with §599f in effect, a swine slaughterhouse will encounter nonambulatory pigs. In that circumstance, §599f tells the slaughterhouse what to do with those animals. Unlike a horse slaughtering ban, the statute thus reaches into the slaughterhouse's facilities and affects its daily activities. And in so doing, the California law runs smack into the FMIA's regulations. So whatever might be said of other bans on slaughter, §599f imposes requirements within--and indeed at the very heart of--the FMIA's scope.10IV     The FMIA regulates slaughterhouses' handling and treatment of nonambulatory pigs from the moment of their delivery through the end of the meat production process. California's §599f endeavors to regulate the same thing, at the same time, in the same place--except by imposing different requirements. The FMIA expressly preempts such a state law. Accordingly, we reverse the judgment of the Ninth Circuit, and remand this case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESRespondents, representing the video-game and software industries, filed a preenforcement challenge to a California law that restricts the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. The Federal District Court concluded that the Act violated the First Amendment and permanently enjoined its enforcement. The Ninth Circuit affirmed.Held: The Act does not comport with the First Amendment. Pp. 2-18.     (a) Video games qualify for First Amendment protection. Like protected books, plays, and movies, they communicate ideas through familiar literary devices and features distinctive to the medium. And "the basic principles of freedom of speech ... do not vary" with a new and different communication medium. Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson, 343 U. S. 495, 503. The most basic principle--that government lacks the power to restrict expression because of its message, ideas, subject matter, or content, Ashcroft v. American Civil Liberties Union, 535 U. S. 564, 573--is subject to a few limited exceptions for historically unprotected speech, such as obscenity, incitement, and fighting words. But a legislature cannot create new categories of unprotected speech simply by weighing the value of a particular category against its social costs and then punishing it if it fails the test. See United States v. Stevens, 559 U. S. ___, ___. Unlike the New York law upheld in Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U. S. 629, California's Act does not adjust the boundaries of an existing category of unprotected speech to ensure that a definition designed for adults is not uncritically applied to children. Instead, the State wishes to create a wholly new category of content-based regulation that is permissible only for speech directed at children. That is unprecedented and mistaken. This country has no tradition of specially restricting children's access to depictions of violence. And California's claim that "interactive" video games present special problems, in that the player participates in the violent action on screen and determines its outcome, is unpersuasive. Pp. 2-11.     (b) Because the Act imposes a restriction on the content of protected speech, it is invalid unless California can demonstrate that it passes strict scrutiny, i.e., it is justified by a compelling government interest and is narrowly drawn to serve that interest. R. A. V. v. St. Paul, 505 U. S. 377, 395. California cannot meet that standard. Psychological studies purporting to show a connection between exposure to violent video games and harmful effects on children do not prove that such exposure causes minors to act aggressively. Any demonstrated effects are both small and indistinguishable from effects produced by other media. Since California has declined to restrict those other media, e.g., Saturday morning cartoons, its video-game regulation is wildly underinclusive, raising serious doubts about whether the State is pursuing the interest it invokes or is instead disfavoring a particular speaker or viewpoint. California also cannot show that the Act's restrictions meet the alleged substantial need of parents who wish to restrict their children's access to violent videos. The video-game industry's voluntary rating system already accomplishes that to a large extent. Moreover, as a means of assisting parents the Act is greatly overinclusive, since not all of the children who are prohibited from purchasing violent video games have parents who disapprove of their doing so. The Act cannot satisfy strict scrutiny. Pp. 11-18.556 F. 3d 950, affirmed.     Scalia, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Kennedy, Ginsburg, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined. Alito, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which Roberts, C. J., joined. Thomas, J., and Breyer, J., filed dissenting opinions.EDMUND G. BROWN, Jr., GOVERNOR OF CAL- IFORNIA, et al., PETITIONERS v. ENTERTAIN- MENT MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[June 27, 2011]     Justice Scalia delivered the opinion of the Court.     We consider whether a California law imposing restrictions on violent video games comports with the First Amendment.I     California Assembly Bill 1179 (2005), Cal. Civ. Code Ann. §§1746-1746.5 (West 2009) (Act), prohibits the sale or rental of "violent video games" to minors, and requires their packaging to be labeled "18." The Act covers games "in which the range of options available to a player includes killing, maiming, dismembering, or sexually assaulting an image of a human being, if those acts are depicted" in a manner that "[a] reasonable person, considering the game as a whole, would find appeals to a deviant or morbid interest of minors," that is "patently offensive to prevailing standards in the community as to what is suitable for minors," and that "causes the game, as a whole, to lack serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value for minors." §1746(d)(1)(A). Violation of the Act is punishable by a civil fine of up to $1,000. §1746.3.     Respondents, representing the video-game and software industries, brought a preenforcement challenge to the Act in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. That court concluded that the Act violated the First Amendment and permanently enjoined its enforcement. Video Software Dealers Assn. v. Schwarzenegger, No. C-05-04188 RMW (2007), App. to Pet. for Cert. 39a. The Court of Appeals affirmed, Video Software Dealers Assn. v. Schwarzenegger, 556 F. 3d 950 (CA9 2009), and we granted certiorari, 559 U. S. ____ (2010).II     California correctly acknowledges that video games qualify for First Amendment protection. The Free Speech Clause exists principally to protect discourse on public matters, but we have long recognized that it is difficult to distinguish politics from entertainment, and dangerous to try. "Everyone is familiar with instances of propaganda through fiction. What is one man's amusement, teaches another's doctrine." Winters v. New York, 333 U. S. 507, 510 (1948). Like the protected books, plays, and movies that preceded them, video games communicate ideas--and even social messages--through many familiar literary devices (such as characters, dialogue, plot, and music) and through features distinctive to the medium (such as the player's interaction with the virtual world). That suffices to confer First Amendment protection. Under our Constitution, "esthetic and moral judgments about art and literature ... are for the individual to make, not for the Government to decree, even with the mandate or approval of a majority." United States v. Playboy Entertainment Group, Inc., 529 U. S. 803, 818 (2000). And whatever the challenges of applying the Constitution to ever-advancing technology, "the basic principles of freedom of speech and the press, like the First Amendment's command, do not vary" when a new and different medium for communication appears. Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson, 343 U. S. 495, 503 (1952).     The most basic of those principles is this: "[A]s a general matter, ... government has no power to restrict expression because of its message, its ideas, its subject matter, or its content." Ashcroft v. American Civil Liberties Union, 535 U. S. 564, 573 (2002) (internal quotation marks omitted). There are of course exceptions. " 'From 1791 to the present,' ... the First Amendment has 'permitted restrictions upon the content of speech in a few limited areas,' and has never 'include[d] a freedom to disregard these traditional limitations.' " United States v. Stevens, 559 U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (slip op., at 5) (quoting R. A. V. v. St. Paul, 505 U. S. 377, 382-383 (1992)). These limited areas--such as obscenity, Roth v. United States, 354 U. S. 476, 483 (1957), incitement, Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 U. S. 444, 447-449 (1969) (per curiam), and fighting words, Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568, 572 (1942)--represent "well-defined and narrowly limited classes of speech, the prevention and punishment of which have never been thought to raise any Constitutional problem," id., at 571-572.     Last Term, in Stevens, we held that new categories of unprotected speech may not be added to the list by a legislature that concludes certain speech is too harmful to be tolerated. Stevens concerned a federal statute purporting to criminalize the creation, sale, or possession of certain depictions of animal cruelty. See 18 U. S. C. §48 (amended 2010). The statute covered depictions "in which a living animal is intentionally maimed, mutilated, tortured, wounded, or killed" if that harm to the animal was illegal where the "the creation, sale, or possession t[ook] place," §48(c)(1). A saving clause largely borrowed from our obscenity jurisprudence, see Miller v. California, 413 U. S. 15, 24 (1973), exempted depictions with "serious religious, political, scientific, educational, journalistic, historical, or artistic value," §48(b). We held that statute to be an impermissible content-based restriction on speech. There was no American tradition of forbidding the depiction of animal cruelty--though States have long had laws against committing it.     The Government argued in Stevens that lack of a historical warrant did not matter; that it could create new categories of unprotected speech by applying a "simple balancing test" that weighs the value of a particular category of speech against its social costs and then punishes that category of speech if it fails the test. Stevens, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7). We emphatically rejected that "startling and dangerous" proposition. Ibid. "Maybe there are some categories of speech that have been historically unprotected, but have not yet been specifically identified or discussed as such in our case law." Id., at ___ (slip op., at 9). But without persuasive evidence that a novel restriction on content is part of a long (if heretofore unrecognized) tradition of proscription, a legislature may not revise the "judgment [of] the American people," embodied in the First Amendment, "that the benefits of its restrictions on the Government outweigh the costs." Id., at ___ (slip op., at 7).     That holding controls this case.1 As in Stevens, California has tried to make violent-speech regulation look like obscenity regulation by appending a saving clause required for the latter. That does not suffice. Our cases have been clear that the obscenity exception to the First Amendment does not cover whatever a legislature finds shocking, but only depictions of "sexual conduct," Miller, supra, at 24. See also Cohen v. California, 403 U. S. 15, 20 (1971); Roth, supra, at 487, and n. 20.     Stevens was not the first time we have encountered and rejected a State's attempt to shoehorn speech about violence into obscenity. In Winters, we considered a New York criminal statute "forbid[ding] the massing of stories of bloodshed and lust in such a way as to incite to crime against the person," 333 U. S., at 514. The New York Court of Appeals upheld the provision as a law against obscenity. "[T]here can be no more precise test of written indecency or obscenity," it said, "than the continuing and changeable experience of the community as to what types of books are likely to bring about the corruption of public morals or other analogous injury to the public order. " Id., at 514 (internal quotation marks omitted). That is of course the same expansive view of governmental power to abridge the freedom of speech based on interest-balancing that we rejected in Stevens. Our opinion in Winters, which concluded that the New York statute failed a heightened vagueness standard applicable to restrictions upon speech entitled to First Amendment protection, 333 U. S., at 517-519, made clear that violence is not part of the obscenity that the Constitution permits to be regulated. The speech reached by the statute contained "no indecency or obscenity in any sense heretofore known to the law." Id., at 519.     Because speech about violence is not obscene, it is of no consequence that California's statute mimics the New York statute regulating obscenity-for-minors that we upheld in Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U. S. 629 (1968). That case approved a prohibition on the sale to minors of sexual material that would be obscene from the perspective of a child.2 We held that the legislature could "adjus[t] the definition of obscenity 'to social realities by permitting the appeal of this type of material to be assessed in terms of the sexual interests ...' of ... minors. " Id., at 638 (quoting Mishkin v. New York, 383 U. S. 502, 509 (1966)). And because "obscenity is not protected expression," the New York statute could be sustained so long as the legislature's judgment that the proscribed materials were harmful to children "was not irrational." 390 U. S., at 641.     The California Act is something else entirely. It does not adjust the boundaries of an existing category of unprotected speech to ensure that a definition designed for adults is not uncritically applied to children. California does not argue that it is empowered to prohibit selling offensively violent works to adults--and it is wise not to, since that is but a hair's breadth from the argument rejected in Stevens. Instead, it wishes to create a wholly new category of content-based regulation that is permissible only for speech directed at children.     That is unprecedented and mistaken. "[M]inors are entitled to a significant measure of First Amendment protection, and only in relatively narrow and well-defined circumstances may government bar public dissemination of protected materials to them." Erznoznik v. Jacksonville, 422 U. S. 205, 212-213 (1975) (citation omitted). No doubt a State possesses legitimate power to protect children from harm, Ginsberg, supra, at 640-641; Prince v. Massachusetts, 321 U. S. 158, 165 (1944), but that does not include a free-floating power to restrict the ideas to which children may be exposed. "Speech that is neither obscene as to youths nor subject to some other legitimate proscription cannot be suppressed solely to protect the young from ideas or images that a legislative body thinks unsuitable for them." Erznoznik, supra, at 213-214.3     California's argument would fare better if there were a longstanding tradition in this country of specially restricting children's access to depictions of violence, but there is none. Certainly the books we give children to read--or read to them when they are younger--contain no shortage of gore. Grimm's Fairy Tales, for example, are grim indeed. As her just deserts for trying to poison Snow White, the wicked queen is made to dance in red hot slippers "till she fell dead on the floor, a sad example of envy and jealousy." The Complete Brothers Grimm Fairy Tales 198 (2006 ed.). Cinderella's evil stepsisters have their eyes pecked out by doves. Id., at 95. And Hansel and Gretel (children!) kill their captor by baking her in an oven. Id., at 54.     High-school reading lists are full of similar fare. Homer's Odysseus blinds Polyphemus the Cyclops by grinding out his eye with a heated stake. The Odyssey of Homer, Book IX, p. 125 (S. Butcher & A. Lang transls. 1909) ("Even so did we seize the fiery-pointed brand and whirled it round in his eye, and the blood flowed about the heated bar. And the breath of the flame singed his eyelids and brows all about, as the ball of the eye burnt away, and the roots thereof crackled in the flame"). In the Inferno, Dante and Virgil watch corrupt politicians struggle to stay submerged beneath a lake of boiling pitch, lest they be skewered by devils above the surface. Canto XXI, pp. 187-189 (A. Mandelbaum transl. Bantam Classic ed. 1982). And Golding's Lord of the Flies recounts how a schoolboy called Piggy is savagely murdered by other children while marooned on an island. W. Golding, Lord of the Flies 208-209 (1997 ed.).4     This is not to say that minors' consumption of violent entertainment has never encountered resistance. In the 1800's, dime novels depicting crime and "penny dreadfuls" (named for their price and content) were blamed in some quarters for juvenile delinquency. See Brief for Cato Institute as Amicus Curiae 6-7. When motion pictures came along, they became the villains instead. "The days when the police looked upon dime novels as the most dangerous of textbooks in the school for crime are drawing to a close... . They say that the moving picture machine ... tends even more than did the dime novel to turn the thoughts of the easily influenced to paths which sometimes lead to prison." Moving Pictures as Helps to Crime, N. Y. Times, Feb. 21, 1909, quoted in Brief for Cato Institute, at 8. For a time, our Court did permit broad censorship of movies because of their capacity to be "used for evil," see Mutual Film Corp. v. Industrial Comm'n of Ohio, 236 U. S. 230, 242 (1915), but we eventually reversed course, Joseph Burstyn, Inc., 343 U. S., at 502; see also Erznoznik, supra, at 212-214 (invalidating a drive-in movies restriction designed to protect children). Radio dramas were next, and then came comic books. Brief for Cato Institute, at 10-11. Many in the late 1940's and early 1950's blamed comic books for fostering a "preoccupation with violence and horror" among the young, leading to a rising juvenile crime rate. See Note, Regulation of Comic Books, 68 Harv. L. Rev. 489, 490 (1955). But efforts to convince Congress to restrict comic books failed. Brief for Comic Book Legal Defense Fund as Amicus Curiae 11-15.5 And, of course, after comic books came television and music lyrics.     California claims that video games present special problems because they are "interactive," in that the player participates in the violent action on screen and determines its outcome. The latter feature is nothing new: Since at least the publication of The Adventures of You: Sugarcane Island in 1969, young readers of choose-your-own-adventure stories have been able to make decisions that determine the plot by following instructions about which page to turn to. Cf. Interactive Digital Software Assn. v. St. Louis County, 329 F. 3d 954, 957-958 (CA8 2003). As for the argument that video games enable participation in the violent action, that seems to us more a matter of degree than of kind. As Judge Posner has observed, all literature is interactive. "[T]he better it is, the more interactive. Literature when it is successful draws the reader into the story, makes him identify with the characters, invites him to judge them and quarrel with them, to experience their joys and sufferings as the reader's own." American Amusement Machine Assn. v. Kendrick, 244 F. 3d 572, 577 (CA7 2001) (striking down a similar restriction on violent video games).     Justice Alito has done considerable independent re-search to identify, see post, at 14-15, nn. 13-18, video games in which "the violence is astounding," post, at 14. "Victims are dismembered, decapitated, disemboweled, set on fire, and chopped into little pieces. . . . Blood gushes, splatters, and pools." Ibid. Justice Alito recounts all these disgusting video games in order to disgust us--but disgust is not a valid basis for restricting expression. And the same is true of Justice Alito's description, post, at 14-15, of those video games he has discovered that have a racial or ethnic motive for their violence--" 'ethnic cleansing' [of] . . . African Americans, Latinos, or Jews." To what end does he relate this? Does it somehow increase the "aggressiveness" that California wishes to suppress? Who knows? But it does arouse the reader's ire, and the reader's desire to put an end to this horrible message. Thus, ironically, Justice Alito's argument highlights the precise danger posed by the California Act: that the ideas expressed by speech--whether it be violence, or gore, or racism--and not its objective effects, may be the real reason for governmental proscription.III     Because the Act imposes a restriction on the content of protected speech, it is invalid unless California can demonstrate that it passes strict scrutiny--that is, unless it is justified by a compelling government interest and is narrowly drawn to serve that interest. R. A. V., 505 U. S., at 395. The State must specifically identify an "actual problem" in need of solving, Playboy, 529 U. S., at 822-823, and the curtailment of free speech must be actually necessary to the solution, see R. A. V., supra, at 395. That is a demanding standard. "It is rare that a regulation restricting speech because of its content will ever be permissible." Playboy, supra, at 818.     California cannot meet that standard. At the outset, it acknowledges that it cannot show a direct causal link between violent video games and harm to minors. Rather, relying upon our decision in Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, 512 U. S. 622 (1994), the State claims that it need not produce such proof because the legislature can make a predictive judgment that such a link exists, based on competing psychological studies. But reliance on Turner Broadcasting is misplaced. That decision applied intermediate scrutiny to a content-neutral regulation. Id., at 661-662. California's burden is much higher, and because it bears the risk of uncertainty, see Playboy, supra, at 816-817, ambiguous proof will not suffice.     The State's evidence is not compelling. California relies primarily on the research of Dr. Craig Anderson and a few other research psychologists whose studies purport to show a connection between exposure to violent video games and harmful effects on children. These studies have been rejected by every court to consider them,6 and with good reason: They do not prove that violent video games cause minors to act aggressively (which would at least be a beginning). Instead, "[n]early all of the research is based on correlation, not evidence of causation, and most of the studies suffer from significant, admitted flaws in methodology." Video Software Dealers Assn. 556 F. 3d, at 964. They show at best some correlation between exposure to violent entertainment and minuscule real-world effects, such as children's feeling more aggressive or making louder noises in the few minutes after playing a violent game than after playing a nonviolent game.7     Even taking for granted Dr. Anderson's conclusions that violent video games produce some effect on children's feelings of aggression, those effects are both small and indistinguishable from effects produced by other media. In his testimony in a similar lawsuit, Dr. Anderson admitted that the "effect sizes" of children's exposure to violent video games are "about the same" as that produced by their exposure to violence on television. App. 1263. And he admits that the same effects have been found when children watch cartoons starring Bugs Bunny or the Road Runner, id., at 1304, or when they play video games like Sonic the Hedgehog that are rated "E" (appropriate for all ages), id., at 1270, or even when they "vie[w] a picture of a gun," id., at 1315-1316.8     Of course, California has (wisely) declined to restrict Saturday morning cartoons, the sale of games rated for young children, or the distribution of pictures of guns. The consequence is that its regulation is wildly underinclusive when judged against its asserted justification, which in our view is alone enough to defeat it. Underinclusiveness raises serious doubts about whether the government is in fact pursuing the interest it invokes, rather than disfavoring a particular speaker or viewpoint. See City of Ladue v. Gilleo, 512 U. S. 43, 51 (1994); Florida Star v. B. J. F., 491 U. S. 524, 540 (1989). Here, California has singled out the purveyors of video games for disfavored treatment--at least when compared to booksellers, cartoonists, and movie producers--and has given no persuasive reason why.     The Act is also seriously underinclusive in another respect--and a respect that renders irrelevant the contentions of the concurrence and the dissents that video games are qualitatively different from other portrayals of violence. The California Legislature is perfectly willing to leave this dangerous, mind-altering material in the hands of children so long as one parent (or even an aunt or uncle) says it's OK. And there are not even any requirements as to how this parental or avuncular relationship is to be verified; apparently the child's or putative parent's, aunt's, or uncle's say-so suffices. That is not how one addresses a serious social problem.     California claims that the Act is justified in aid of parental authority: By requiring that the purchase of violent video games can be made only by adults, the Act ensures that parents can decide what games are appropriate. At the outset, we note our doubts that punishing third parties for conveying protected speech to children just in case their parents disapprove of that speech is a proper governmental means of aiding parental authority. Accepting that position would largely vitiate the rule that "only in relatively narrow and well-defined circumstances may government bar public dissemination of protected materials to [minors]." Erznoznik, 422 U. S., at 212-213.     But leaving that aside, California cannot show that the Act's restrictions meet a substantial need of parents who wish to restrict their children's access to violent video games but cannot do so. The video-game industry has in place a voluntary rating system designed to inform consumers about the content of games. The system, implemented by the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB), assigns age-specific ratings to each video game submitted: EC (Early Childhood); E (Everyone); E10+ (Everyone 10 and older); T (Teens); M (17 and older); and AO (Adults Only--18 and older). App. 86. The Video Software Dealers Association encourages retailers to prominently display information about the ESRB system in their stores; to refrain from renting or selling adults-only games to minors; and to rent or sell "M" rated games to minors only with parental consent. Id., at 47. In 2009, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) found that, as a result of this system, "the video game industry outpaces the movie and music industries" in "(1) restricting target-marketing of mature-rated products to children; (2) clearly and prominently disclosing rating information; and (3) re-stricting children's access to mature-rated products at retail." FTC, Report to Congress, Marketing Violent Entertainment to Children 30 (Dec. 2009), online at http:// www.ftc.gov / os/ 2009 / 12/ P994511violententertainment.pdf (as visited June 24, 2011, and available in Clerk of Court's case file) (FTC Report). This system does much to ensure that minors cannot purchase seriously violent games on their own, and that parents who care about the matter can readily evaluate the games their children bring home. Filling the remaining modest gap in concerned-parents' control can hardly be a compelling state interest.9     And finally, the Act's purported aid to parental authority is vastly overinclusive. Not all of the children who are forbidden to purchase violent video games on their own have parents who care whether they purchase violent video games. While some of the legislation's effect may indeed be in support of what some parents of the restricted children actually want, its entire effect is only in support of what the State thinks parents ought to want. This is not the narrow tailoring to "assisting parents" that restriction of First Amendment rights requires.*??*??*     California's effort to regulate violent video games is the latest episode in a long series of failed attempts to censor violent entertainment for minors. While we have pointed out above that some of the evidence brought forward to support the harmfulness of video games is unpersuasive, we do not mean to demean or disparage the concerns that underlie the attempt to regulate them--concerns that may and doubtless do prompt a good deal of parental oversight. We have no business passing judgment on the view of the California Legislature that violent video games (or, for that matter, any other forms of speech) corrupt the young or harm their moral development. Our task is only to say whether or not such works constitute a "well-defined and narrowly limited clas[s] of speech, the prevention and punishment of which have never been thought to raise any Constitutional problem," Chaplinsky, 315 U. S., at 571-572 (the answer plainly is no); and if not, whether the regulation of such works is justified by that high degree of necessity we have described as a compelling state interest (it is not). Even where the protection of children is the object, the constitutional limits on governmental action apply.     California's legislation straddles the fence between (1) addressing a serious social problem and (2) helping concerned parents control their children. Both ends are legitimate, but when they affect First Amendment rights they must be pursued by means that are neither seriously underinclusive nor seriously overinclusive. See Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah, 508 U. S. 520, 546 (1993). As a means of protecting children from portrayals of violence, the legislation is seriously underinclusive, not only because it excludes portrayals other than video games, but also because it permits a parental or avuncular veto. And as a means of assisting concerned parents it is seriously overinclusive because it abridges the First Amendment rights of young people whose parents (and aunts and uncles) think violent video games are a harmless pastime. And the overbreadth in achieving one goal is not cured by the underbreadth in achieving the other. Legislation such as this, which is neither fish nor fowl, cannot survive strict scrutiny.     We affirm the judgment below.It is so ordered.EDMUND G. BROWN, Jr., GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA, et al., PETITIONERS v. ENTERTAINMENT MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[June 27, 2011]     Justice Alito, with whom The Chief Justice joins, concurring in the judgment.     The California statute that is before us in this case represents a pioneering effort to address what the state legislature and others regard as a potentially serious social problem: the effect of exceptionally violent video games on impressionable minors, who often spend countless hours immersed in the alternative worlds that these games create. Although the California statute is well intentioned, its terms are not framed with the precision that the Constitution demands, and I therefore agree with the Court that this particular law cannot be sustained.     I disagree, however, with the approach taken in the Court's opinion. In considering the application of unchanging constitutional principles to new and rapidly evolving technology, this Court should proceed with caution. We should make every effort to understand the new technology. We should take into account the possibility that developing technology may have important societal implications that will become apparent only with time. We should not jump to the conclusion that new technology is fundamentally the same as some older thing with which we are familiar. And we should not hastily dismiss the judgment of legislators, who may be in a better position than we are to assess the implications of new technology. The opinion of the Court exhibits none of this caution.     In the view of the Court, all those concerned about the effects of violent video games--federal and state legislators, educators, social scientists, and parents--are unduly fearful, for violent video games really present no serious problem. See ante, at 10-13, 15-16. Spending hour upon hour controlling the actions of a character who guns down scores of innocent victims is not different in "kind" from reading a description of violence in a work of literature. See ante, at 10-11.     The Court is sure of this; I am not. There are reasons to suspect that the experience of playing violent video games just might be very different from reading a book, listening to the radio, or watching a movie or a television show.I     Respondents in this case, representing the video-game industry, ask us to strike down the California law on two grounds: The broad ground adopted by the Court and the narrower ground that the law's definition of "violent video game," see Cal. Civ. Code Ann. §1746(d)(1)(A) (West 2009), is impermissibly vague. See Brief for Respondents 23-61. Because I agree with the latter argument, I see no need to reach the broader First Amendment issues addressed by the Court.1A     Due process requires that laws give people of ordinary intelligence fair notice of what is prohibited. Grayned v. City of Rockford, 408 U. S. 104, 108 (1972). The lack of such notice in a law that regulates expression "raises special First Amendment concerns because of its obvious chilling effect on free speech." Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union, 521 U. S. 844, 871-872 (1997). Vague laws force potential speakers to " 'steer far wider of the unlawful zone' ... than if the boundaries of the forbidden areas were clearly marked." Baggett v. Bullitt, 377 U. S. 360, 372 (1964) (quoting Speiser v. Randall, 357 U. S. 513, 526 (1958)). While "perfect clarity and precise guidance have never been required even of regulations that restrict expressive activity," Ward v. Rock Against Racism, 491 U. S. 781, 794 (1989), "government may regulate in the area" of First Amendment freedoms "only with narrow specificity," NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415, 433 (1963); see also Hoffman Estates v. Flipside, Hoffman Estates, Inc., 455 U. S. 489, 499 (1982). These principles apply to laws that regulate expression for the purpose of protecting children. See Interstate Circuit, Inc. v. Dallas, 390 U. S. 676, 689 (1968).     Here, the California law does not define "violent video games" with the "narrow specificity" that the Constitution demands. In an effort to avoid First Amendment problems, the California Legislature modeled its violent video game statute on the New York law that this Court upheld in Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U. S. 629 (1968)--a law that prohibited the sale of certain sexually related materials to minors, see id., at 631-633. But the California Legislature departed from the Ginsberg model in an important respect, and the legislature overlooked important differences between the materials falling within the scope of the two statutes.B     The law at issue in Ginsberg prohibited the sale to minors of materials that were deemed "harmful to minors," and the law defined "harmful to minors" simply by adding the words "for minors" to each element of the definition of obscenity set out in what were then the Court's leading obscenity decisions, see Roth v. United States, 354 U. S. 476 (1957), and Book Named "John Cleland's Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure" v. Attorney General of Mass., 383 U. S. 413 (1966).     Seeking to bring its violent video game law within the protection of Ginsberg, the California Legislature began with the obscenity test adopted in Miller v. California, 413 U. S. 15 (1973), a decision that revised the obscenity tests previously set out in Roth and Memoirs. The legislature then made certain modifications to accommodate the aim of the violent video game law.     Under Miller, an obscenity statute must contain a thresh-old limitation that restricts the statute's scope to specifically described "hard core" materials. See 413 U. S., at 23-25, 27. Materials that fall within this "hard core" category may be deemed to be obscene if three additional requirements are met:(1) an "average person, applying contemporary community standards [must] find ... the work, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest";(2) "the work [must] depic[t] or describ[e], in a patently offensive way, sexual conduct specifically defined by the applicable state law; and"(3) "the work, taken as a whole, [must] lac[k] serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value." Id., at 24 (internal quotation marks omitted).     Adapting these standards, the California law imposes the following threshold limitation: "[T]he range of options available to a player [must] includ[e] killing, maiming, dismembering, or sexually assaulting an image of a human being." §1746(d)(1). Any video game that meets this threshold test is subject to the law's restrictions if it also satisfies three further requirements:     "(i) A reasonable person, considering the game as a whole, would find [the game] appeals to a deviant or morbid interest of minors.     "(ii) It is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the community as to what is suitable for minors.     "(iii) It causes the game, as a whole, to lack serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value for minors." §1746(d)(1)(A).2C     The first important difference between the Ginsberg law and the California violent video game statute concerns their respective threshold requirements. As noted, the Ginsberg law built upon the test for adult obscenity, and the current adult obscenity test, which was set out in Miller, requires an obscenity statute to contain a threshold limitation that restricts the statute's coverage to specifically defined "hard core" depictions. See 413 U. S., at 23-25, 27. The Miller Court gave as an example a statute that applies to only "[p]atently offensive representations or descriptions of ultimate sexual acts," "masturbation, excretory functions, and lewd exhibition of the genitals." Id., at 25. The Miller Court clearly viewed this threshold limitation as serving a vital notice function. "We are satisfied," the Court wrote, "that these specific prerequisites will provide fair notice to a dealer in such materials that his public and commercial activities may bring prosecution." Id., at 27; see also Reno, supra, at 873 (observing that Miller's threshold limitation "reduces the vagueness inherent in the open-ended term 'patently offensive' ").3     By contrast, the threshold requirement of the California law does not perform the narrowing function served by the limitation in Miller. At least when Miller was decided, depictions of "hard core" sexual conduct were not a common feature of mainstream entertainment. But nothing similar can be said about much of the conduct covered by the California law. It provides that a video game cannot qualify as "violent" unless "the range of options available to a player includes killing, maiming, dismembering, or sexually assaulting an image of a human being." §1746(d)(1).     For better or worse, our society has long regarded many depictions of killing and maiming4 as suitable features of popular entertainment, including entertainment that is widely available to minors. The California law's threshold requirement would more closely resemble the limitation in Miller if it targeted a narrower class of graphic depictions.     Because of this feature of the California law's threshold test, the work of providing fair notice is left in large part to the three requirements that follow, but those elements are also not up to the task. In drafting the violent video game law, the California Legislature could have made its own judgment regarding the kind and degree of violence that is acceptable in games played by minors (or by minors in particular age groups). Instead, the legislature relied on undefined societal or community standards.     One of the three elements at issue here refers expressly to "prevailing standards in the community as to what is suitable for minors." §1746(d)(1)(A)(ii). Another element points in the same direction, asking whether "[a] reasonable person, considering [a] game as a whole," would find that it "appeals to a deviant or morbid interest of minors." §1746(d)(1)(A)(i) (emphasis added).     The terms "deviant" and "morbid" are not defined in the statute, and California offers no reason to think that its courts would give the terms anything other than their ordinary meaning. See Reply Brief for Petitioners 5 (arguing that "[a] reasonable person can make this judgment through ... a common understanding and definition of the applicable terms"). I therefore assume that "deviant" and "morbid" carry the meaning that they convey in ordinary speech. The adjective "deviant" ordinarily means "deviating ... from some accepted norm," and the term "morbid" means "of, relating to, or characteristic of disease." Webster's 618, 1469. A "deviant or morbid interest" in violence, therefore, appears to be an interest that deviates from what is regarded--presumably in accordance with some generally accepted standard--as normal and healthy. Thus, the application of the California law is heavily dependent on the identification of generally accepted standards regarding the suitability of violent entertainment for minors.     The California Legislature seems to have assumed that these standards are sufficiently well known so that a person of ordinary intelligence would have fair notice as to whether the kind and degree of violence in a particular game is enough to qualify the game as "violent." And because the Miller test looks to community standards, the legislature may have thought that the use of undefined community standards in the violent video game law would not present vagueness problems.     There is a critical difference, however, between obscenity laws and laws regulating violence in entertainment. By the time of this Court's landmark obscenity cases in the 1960's, obscenity had long been prohibited, see Roth, 354 U. S., at 484-485, and this experience had helped to shape certain generally accepted norms concerning expression related to sex.     There is no similar history regarding expression related to violence. As the Court notes, classic literature contains descriptions of great violence, and even children's stories sometimes depict very violent scenes. See ante, at 8-9.     Although our society does not generally regard all depictions of violence as suitable for children or adolescents, the prevalence of violent depictions in children's literature and entertainment creates numerous opportunities for reasonable people to disagree about which depictions may excite "deviant" or "morbid" impulses. See Edwards & Berman, Regulating Violence on Television, 89 Nw. U. L. Rev. 1487, 1523 (1995) (observing that the Miller test would be difficult to apply to violent expression because "there is nothing even approaching a consensus on low-value violence").     Finally, the difficulty of ascertaining the community standards incorporated into the California law is compounded by the legislature's decision to lump all minors together. The California law draws no distinction between young children and adolescents who are nearing the age of majority.     In response to a question at oral argument, the attorney defending the constitutionality of the California law said that the State would accept a narrowing construction of the law under which the law's references to "minors" would be interpreted to refer to the oldest minors--that is, those just short of 18. Tr. of Oral Arg. 11-12. However, "it is not within our power to construe and narrow state laws." Grayned, 408 U. S., at 110. We can only " 'extrapolate [their] allowable meaning' " from the statutory text and authoritative interpretations of similar laws by courts of the State. Ibid. (quoting Garner v. Louisiana, 368 U. S. 157, 174 (1961) (Frankfurter, J., concurring in judgment)).     In this case, California has not provided any evidence that the California Legislature intended the law to be limited in this way, or cited any decisions from its courts that would support an "oldest minors" construction.5     For these reasons, I conclude that the California violent video game law fails to provide the fair notice that the Constitution requires. And I would go no further. I would not express any view on whether a properly drawn statute would or would not survive First Amendment scrutiny. We should address that question only if and when it is necessary to do so.II     Having outlined how I would decide this case, I will now briefly elaborate on my reasons for questioning the wisdom of the Court's approach. Some of these reasons are touched upon by the dissents, and while I am not prepared at this time to go as far as either Justice Thomas or Justice Breyer, they raise valid concerns.A     The Court is wrong in saying that the holding in United States v. Stevens, 559 U. S. ___ (2010), "controls this case." Ante, at 4. First, the statute in Stevens differed sharply from the statute at issue here. Stevens struck down a law that broadly prohibited any person from creating, selling, or possessing depictions of animal cruelty for commercial gain. The California law involved here, by contrast, is limited to the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. The California law imposes no restriction on the creation of violent video games, or on the possession of such games by anyone, whether above or below the age of 18. The California law does not regulate the sale or rental of violent games by adults. And the California law does not prevent parents and certain other close relatives from buying or renting violent games for their children or other young relatives if they see fit.     Second, Stevens does not support the proposition that a law like the one at issue must satisfy strict scrutiny. The portion of Stevens on which the Court relies rejected the Government's contention that depictions of animal cruelty were categorically outside the range of any First Amendment protection. 559 U. S., at __ (slip op., at 5). Going well beyond Stevens, the Court now holds that any law that attempts to prevent minors from purchasing violent video games must satisfy strict scrutiny instead of the more lenient standard applied in Ginsberg, 390 U. S. 629, our most closely related precedent. As a result of today's decision, a State may prohibit the sale to minors of what Ginsberg described as "girlie magazines," but a State must surmount a formidable (and perhaps insurmountable) obstacle if it wishes to prevent children from purchasing the most violent and depraved video games imaginable.     Third, Stevens expressly left open the possibility that a more narrowly drawn statute targeting depictions of animal cruelty might be compatible with the First Amendment. See 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 19). In this case, the Court's sweeping opinion will likely be read by many, both inside and outside the video-game industry, as suggesting that no regulation of minors' access to violent video games is allowed--at least without supporting evidence that may not be realistically obtainable given the nature of the phenomenon in question.B     The Court's opinion distorts the effect of the California law. I certainly agree with the Court that the government has no "free-floating power to restrict the ideas to which children may be exposed," ante, at 7, but the California law does not exercise such a power. If parents want their child to have a violent video game, the California law does not interfere with that parental prerogative. Instead, the California law reinforces parental decisionmaking in exactly the same way as the New York statute upheld in Ginsberg. Under both laws, minors are prevented from purchasing certain materials; and under both laws, parents are free to supply their children with these items if that is their wish.     Citing the video-game industry's voluntary rating system, the Court argues that the California law does not "meet a substantial need of parents who wish to restrict their children's access to violent video games but cannot do so." Ante, at 15. The Court does not mention the fact that the industry adopted this system in response to the threat of federal regulation, Brief for Activision Blizzard, Inc., as Amicus Curiae 7-10, a threat that the Court's opinion may now be seen as largely eliminating. Nor does the Court acknowledge that compliance with this system at the time of the enactment of the California law left much to be desired6--or that future enforcement may decline if the video-game industry perceives that any threat of government regulation has vanished. Nor does the Court note, as Justice Breyer points out, see post, at 11 (dissenting opinion), that many parents today are simply not able to monitor their children's use of computers and gaming devices.C     Finally, the Court is far too quick to dismiss the possibility that the experience of playing video games (and the effects on minors of playing violent video games) may be very different from anything that we have seen before. Any assessment of the experience of playing video games must take into account certain characteristics of the video games that are now on the market and those that are likely to be available in the near future.     Today's most advanced video games create realistic alternative worlds in which millions of players immerse themselves for hours on end. These games feature visual imagery and sounds that are strikingly realistic, and in the near future video-game graphics may be virtually indistinguishable from actual video footage.7 Many of the games already on the market can produce high definition images,8 and it is predicted that it will not be long before video-game images will be seen in three dimensions.9 It is also forecast that video games will soon provide sensory feedback.10 By wearing a special vest or other device, a player will be able to experience physical sensations supposedly felt by a character on the screen.11 Some amici who support respondents foresee the day when " 'virtual-reality shoot-'em-ups' " will allow children to " 'actually feel the splatting blood from the blown-off head' " of a victim. Brief for Reporters Comm. for Freedom of the Press et al. as Amici Curiae 29 (quoting H. Schechter, Savage Pastimes 18 (2005)).     Persons who play video games also have an unprecedented ability to participate in the events that take place in the virtual worlds that these games create. Players can create their own video-game characters and can use photos to produce characters that closely resemble actual people. A person playing a sophisticated game can make a multitude of choices and can thereby alter the course of the action in the game. In addition, the means by which players control the action in video games now bear a closer relationship to the means by which people control action in the real world. While the action in older games was often directed with buttons or a joystick, players dictate the action in newer games by engaging in the same motions that they desire a character in the game to perform.12 For example, a player who wants a video-game character to swing a baseball bat--either to hit a ball or smash a skull--could bring that about by simulating the motion of actually swinging a bat.     These present-day and emerging characteristics of video games must be considered together with characteristics of the violent games that have already been marketed.     In some of these games, the violence is astounding.13 Victims by the dozens are killed with every imaginable implement, including machine guns, shotguns, clubs, hammers, axes, swords, and chainsaws. Victims are dismembered, decapitated, disemboweled, set on fire, and chopped into little pieces. They cry out in agony and beg for mercy. Blood gushes, splatters, and pools. Severed body parts and gobs of human remains are graphically shown. In some games, points are awarded based, not only on the number of victims killed, but on the killing technique employed.     It also appears that there is no antisocial theme too base for some in the video-game industry to exploit. There are games in which a player can take on the identity and reenact the killings carried out by the perpetrators of the murders at Columbine High School and Virginia Tech.14 The objective of one game is to rape a mother and her daughters;15 in another, the goal is to rape Native American women.16 There is a game in which players engage in "ethnic cleansing" and can choose to gun down African-Americans, Latinos, or Jews.17 In still another game, players attempt to fire a rifle shot into the head of President Kennedy as his motorcade passes by the Texas School Book Depository.18     If the technological characteristics of the sophisticated games that are likely to be available in the near future are combined with the characteristics of the most violent games already marketed, the result will be games that allow troubled teens to experience in an extraordinarily personal and vivid way what it would be like to carry out unspeakable acts of violence.     The Court is untroubled by this possibility. According to the Court, the "interactive" nature of video games is "nothing new" because "all literature is interactive." Ante, at 10-11. Disagreeing with this assessment, the International Game Developers Association (IGDA)--a group that presumably understands the nature of video games and that supports respondents--tells us that video games are "far more concretely interactive." Brief for IGDA et al. as Amici Curiae 3. And on this point, the game developers are surely correct.     It is certainly true, as the Court notes, that " '[l]it-erature, when it is successful draws the reader into the story, makes him identify with the characters, invites him to judge them and quarrel with them, to experience their joys and sufferings as the reader's own.' " Ante, at 11 (quoting American Amusement Machine Assn. v. Kendrick, 244 F. 3d 572, 577 (CA7 2001)). But only an extraordinarily imaginative reader who reads a description of a killing in a literary work will experience that event as vividly as he might if he played the role of the killer in a video game. To take an example, think of a person who reads the passage in Crime and Punishment in which Raskolnikov kills the old pawn broker with an axe. See F. Dostoyevsky, Crime and Punishment 78 (Modern Library ed. 1950). Compare that reader with a video-game player who creates an avatar that bears his own image; who sees a realistic image of the victim and the scene of the killing in high definition and in three dimensions; who is forced to decide whether or not to kill the victim and decides to do so; who then pretends to grasp an axe, to raise it above the head of the victim, and then to bring it down; who hears the thud of the axe hitting her head and her cry of pain; who sees her split skull and feels the sensation of blood on his face and hands. For most people, the two experiences will not be the same.19     When all of the characteristics of video games are taken into account, there is certainly a reasonable basis for thinking that the experience of playing a video game may be quite different from the experience of reading a book, listening to a radio broadcast, or viewing a movie. And if this is so, then for at least some minors, the effects of playing violent video games may also be quite different. The Court acts prematurely in dismissing this possibility out of hand.*??*??*     For all these reasons, I would hold only that the particular law at issue here fails to provide the clear notice that the Constitution requires. I would not squelch legislative efforts to deal with what is perceived by some to be a significant and developing social problem. If differently framed statutes are enacted by the States or by the Federal Government, we can consider the constitutionality of those laws when cases challenging them are presented to us.EDMUND G. BROWN, Jr., GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA, et al., PETITIONERS v. ENTERTAINMENT MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[June 27, 2011]     Justice Thomas, dissenting.     The Court's decision today does not comport with the original public understanding of the First Amendment. The majority strikes down, as facially unconstitutional, a state law that prohibits the direct sale or rental of certain video games to minors because the law "abridg[es] the freedom of speech." U. S. Const., Amdt. 1. But I do not think the First Amendment stretches that far. The practices and beliefs of the founding generation establish that "the freedom of speech," as originally understood, does not include a right to speak to minors (or a right of minors to access speech) without going through the minors' parents or guardians. I would hold that the law at issue is not facially unconstitutional under the First Amendment, and reverse and remand for further proceedings.1I     When interpreting a constitutional provision, "the goal is to discern the most likely public understanding of [that] provision at the time it was adopted." McDonald v. Chicago, 561 U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (slip op., at 25) (Thomas, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment). Because the Constitution is a written instrument, "its meaning does not alter." McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Comm'n, 514 U. S. 334, 359 (1995) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (internal quotation marks omitted). "That which it meant when adopted, it means now." Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).     As originally understood, the First Amendment's protection against laws "abridging the freedom of speech" did not extend to all speech. "There are certain well-defined and narrowly limited classes of speech, the prevention and punishment of which have never been thought to raise any Constitutional problem." Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568, 571-572 (1942); see also United States v. Stevens, 559 U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (slip op., at 5-6). Laws regulating such speech do not "abridg[e] the freedom of speech" because such speech is understood to fall outside "the freedom of speech." See Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition, 535 U. S. 234, 245-246 (2002).     In my view, the "practices and beliefs held by the Founders" reveal another category of excluded speech: speech to minor children bypassing their parents. McIntyre, supra, at 360. The historical evidence shows that the founding generation believed parents had absolute authority over their minor children and expected parents to use that authority to direct the proper development of their children. It would be absurd to suggest that such a society understood "the freedom of speech" to include a right to speak to minors (or a corresponding right of minors to access speech) without going through the minors' parents. Cf. Brief for Common Sense Media as Amicus Curiae 12-15. The founding generation would not have considered it an abridgment of "the freedom of speech" to support parental authority by restricting speech that bypasses minors' parents.A     Attitudes toward children were in a state of transition around the time that the States ratified the Bill of Rights. A complete understanding of the founding generation's views on children and the parent-child relationship must therefore begin roughly a century earlier, in colonial New England.     In the Puritan tradition common in the New England Colonies, fathers ruled families with absolute authority. "The patriarchal family was the basic building block of Puritan society." S. Mintz, Huck's Raft 13 (2004) (hereinafter Mintz); see also R. MacDonald, Literature for Children in England and America from 1646 to 1774, p. 7 (1982) (hereinafter MacDonald). The Puritans rejected many customs, such as godparenthood, that they considered inconsistent with the patriarchal structure. Mintz 13.     Part of the father's absolute power was the right and duty "to fill his children's minds with knowledge and ... make them apply their knowledge in right action." E. Morgan, The Puritan Family 97 (rev. ed. 1966) (herein-after Morgan). Puritans thought children were "innately sinful and that parents' primary task was to suppress their children's natural depravity." S. Mintz & S. Kellogg, Domestic Revolutions 2 (1988) (hereinafter Mintz & Kellogg); see also B. Wadsworth, The Well-Ordered Family 55 (1712) ("Children should not be left to themselves ... to do as they please; ... not being fit to govern themselves"); C. Mather, A Family Well-Ordered 38 (1699). Accordingly, parents were not to let their children read "vain Books, profane Ballads, and filthy Songs" or "fond and amorous Romances, ... fabulous Histories of Giants, the bombast Achievements of Knight Errantry, and the like." The History of Genesis, pp. vi-vii (3d ed. corrected 1708).     This conception of parental authority was reflected in laws at that time. In the Massachusetts Colony, for example, it was unlawful for tavern keepers (or anyone else) to entertain children without their parents' consent. 2 Records and Files of the Quarterly Courts of Essex County, Massachusetts, p. 180 (1912); 4 id., at 237, 275 (1914); 5 id., at 143 (1916); see also Morgan 146. And a "stubborn or rebellious son" of 16 years or more committed a capital offense if he disobeyed "the voice of his Father, or the voice of his Mother." The Laws and Liberties of Massachusetts 6 (1648) (reprint M. Farrand ed. 1929); see also J. Kamensky, Governing the Tongue 102, n. 14 (1997) (citing similar laws in the Connecticut, New Haven, Plymouth, and New Hampshire Colonies in the late 1600's).B     In the decades leading up to and following the Revolution, attitudes towards children changed. See, e.g., J. Reinier, From Virtue to Character: American Childhood, 1775-1850, p. 1 (1996) (hereinafter Reinier). Children came to be seen less as innately sinful and more as blank slates requiring careful and deliberate development. But the same overarching principles remained. Parents continued to have both the right and duty to ensure the proper development of their children. They exercised significant authority over their children, including control over the books that children read. And laws at the time continued to reflect strong support for parental authority and the sense that children were not fit to govern themselves.1     The works of John Locke and Jean-Jacques Rousseau were a driving force behind the changed understanding of children and childhood. See Reinier 2-5; H. Brewer, By Birth or Consent 97 (2005) (hereinafter Brewer); K. Calvert, Children in the House 59-60 (1992) (hereinafter Calvert). Locke taught that children's minds were blank slates and that parents therefore had to be careful and deliberate about what their children were told and observed. Parents had only themselves to blame if, "by hu-mouring and cockering" their children, they "poison'd the fountain" and later "taste[d] the bitter waters." Some Thoughts Concerning Education (1692), in 37 English Philosophers of the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries 27-28 (C. Eliot ed. 1910). All vices, he explained, were sowed by parents and "those about children." Id., at 29. Significantly, Locke did not suggest circumscribing parental authority but rather articulated a new basis for it. Rousseau disagreed with Locke in important respects, but his philosophy was similarly premised on parental control over a child's development. Although Rousseau advocated that children should be allowed to develop naturally, he instructed that the environment be directed by "a tutor who is given total control over the child and who removes him from society, from all competing sources of authority and influence." J. Fliegelman, Prodigals and Pilgrims 30 (1982) (hereinafter Fliegelman); see also Reinier 15.     These writings received considerable attention in America. Locke's An Essay Concerning Human Understanding and his Some Thoughts Concerning Education were significantly more popular than his Two Treatises of Government, according to a study of 92 colonial libraries between 1700 and 1776. Lundberg & May, The Enlightened Reader in America, 28 American Quarterly 262, 273 (1976) (hereinafter Lundberg). And Rousseau's Emile, a treatise on education, was more widely advertised and distributed than his political work, The Social Contract. Fliegelman 29; see also Lundberg 285. In general, the most popular books in the Colonies on the eve of the American Revolution were not political discourses but ones concerned with child rearing. See Mintz & Kellogg 45.2     Locke's and Rousseau's writings fostered a new conception of childhood. Children were increasingly viewed as malleable creatures, and childhood came to be seen as an important period of growth, development, and preparation for adulthood. See Mintz & Kellogg 17, 21, 47; M. Grossberg, Governing the Hearth 8 (1985) (hereinafter Grossberg). Noah Webster, called the father of American education, wrote that "[t]he impressions received in early life usually form the characters of individuals." On the Education of Youth in America (1790) (hereinafter Webster), in Essays on Education in the Early Republic 43 (F. Rudolph ed. 1965) (hereinafter Rudolph); cf. Slater, Noah Webster: Founding Father of American Scholarship and Education, in Noah Webster's First Edition of an American Dictionary of the English Language (1967). Elizabeth Smith, sister-in-law to John Adams, similarly wrote: "The Infant Mind, I beleive[,] is a blank, that eassily receives any impression." M. Norton, Liberty's Daughters 101 (1996) (internal quotation marks omitted) (hereinafter Norton); see also S. Doggett, A Discourse on Education (1796) (hereinafter Doggett), in Rudolph 151 ("[I]n early youth, ... every power and capacity is pliable and susceptible of any direction or impression"); J. Abbott, The Mother at Home 2 (1834) (hereinafter Abbott) ("What impressions can be more strong, and more lasting, than those received upon the mind in the freshness and the susceptibility of youth").     Children lacked reason and decisionmaking ability. They "have not Judgment or Will of their own," John Adams noted. Letter to James Sullivan (May 26, 1776), in 4 Papers of John Adams 210 (R. Taylor ed. 1979); see also Vol. 1 1787: Drafting the Constitution, p. 229 (W. Benton ed. 1986) (quoting Gouvernor Morris in James Madison's notes from the Constitutional Convention explaining that children do not vote because they "want prudence" and "have no will of their own"). Children's "utter incapacity" rendered them "almost wholly at the mercy of their Parents or Instructors for a set of habits to regulate their whole conduct through life." J. Burgh, Thoughts on Education 7 (1749) (hereinafter Burgh).     This conception of childhood led to great concern about influences on children. "Youth are ever learning to do what they see others around them doing, and these imitations grow into habits." Doggett, in Rudolph 151; see also B. Rush, A Plan for the Establishment of Public Schools (1786) (hereinafter Rush), in Rudolph 16 ("The vices of young people are generally learned from each other"); Webster, in Rudolph 58 ("[C]hildren, artless and unsuspecting, resign their hearts to any person whose manners are agreeable and whose conduct is respectable"). Books therefore advised parents "not to put children in the way of those whom you dare not trust." L. Child, The Mother's Book 149 (1831) (hereinafter Child); see also S. Coontz, The Social Origins of Private Life 149-150 (1988) (noting that it was "considered dangerous to leave children to the supervision of servants or apprentices").     As a result, it was widely accepted that children needed close monitoring and carefully planned development. See B. Wishy, The Child and the Republic 24-25, 32 (1968) (hereinafter Wishy); Grossberg 8. Managing the young mind was considered "infinitely important." Doggett, in Rudolph 151; see also A. MacLeod, A Moral Tale 72-73 (1975) (hereinafter MacLeod). In an essay on the education of youth in America, Noah Webster described the human mind as "a rich field, which, without constant care, will ever be covered with a luxuriant growth of weeds." Rudolph 54. He advocated sheltering children from "every low-bred, drunken, immoral character" and keeping their minds "untainted till their reasoning faculties have acquired strength and the good principles which may be planted in their minds have taken deep root." Id., at 63; see also Rush, in id., at 16 ("[T]he most useful citizens have been formed from those youth who have never known or felt their own wills till they were one and twenty years of age"); Burgh 7 ("[T]he souls of Youth are more immediately committed to the care of Parents and Instructors than even those of a People are to their Pastor").     The Revolution only amplified these concerns. The Re-public would require virtuous citizens, which necessitated proper training from childhood. See Mintz 54, 71; MacLeod 40; Saxton, French and American Childhoods, in Children and Youth in a New Nation 69 (J. Marten ed. 2009) (hereinafter Marten); see also W. Cardell, Story of Jack Halyard, pp. xv-xvi (30th ed. 1834) (hereinafter Cardell) ("[T]he glory and efficacy of our institutions will soon rest with those who are growing up to succede us"). Children were "the pivot of the moral world," and their proper development was "a subject of as high interest, as any to which the human mind ha[d] ever been called." Id., at xvi.3     Based on these views of childhood, the founding generation understood parents to have a right and duty to govern their children's growth. Parents were expected to direct the development and education of their children and ensure that bad habits did not take root. See Calvert 58-59; MacLeod 72; Mintz & Kellogg 23. They were responsible for instilling "moral prohibitions, behavioral standards, and a capacity for self-government that would prepare a child for the outside world." Mintz & Kellogg 58; see also Youth's Companion, Apr. 16, 1827, p. 1 (hereinafter Youth's Companion) ("Let [children's] minds be formed, their hearts prepared, and their characters moulded for the scenes and the duties of a brighter day"). In short, "[h]ome and family bore the major responsibility for the moral training of children and thus, by implication, for the moral health of the nation." MacLeod 29; see also Introduction, in Marten 6; Reinier, p. xi; Smith, Autonomy and Affection: Parents and Children in Eighteenth-Century Chesapeake Families, in Growing up in America 54 (N. Hiner & J. Hawes eds. 1985).     This conception of parental rights and duties was exemplified by Thomas Jefferson's approach to raising children. He wrote letters to his daughters constantly and often gave specific instructions about what the children should do. See, e.g., Letter to Martha Jefferson (Nov. 28, 1783), in S. Randolph, The Domestic Life of Thomas Jefferson 44 (1939) (dictating her daily schedule of music, dancing, drawing, and studying); Letter to Martha Jefferson (Dec. 22, 1783), in id., at 45-46 ("I do not wish you to be gaily clothed at this time of life ... . [A]bove all things and at all times let your clothes be neat, whole, and properly put on"). Jefferson expected his daughter, Martha, to write "by every post" and instructed her, "Inform me what books you read [and] what tunes you learn." Letter (Nov. 28, 1783), in id., at 44. He took the same approach with his nephew, Peter Carr, after Carr's father died. See Letter (Aug. 19, 1785), in 8 The Papers of Thomas Jefferson 405-408 (J. Boyd ed. 1953) (detailing a course of reading and exercise, and asking for monthly progress reports describing "in what manner you employ every hour in the day"); see also 3 Dictionary of Virginia Biography 29 (2006).     Jefferson's rigorous management of his charges was not uncommon. "[M]uch evidence indicates that mothers and fathers both believed in giving their children a strict upbringing, enforcing obedience to their commands and stressing continued subjection to the parental will." Norton 96. Two parenting books published in the 1830's gave prototypical advice. In The Mother's Book, Lydia Child advised that "[t]he first and most important step in management is, that whatever a mother says, always must be done." Child 26. John Abbott, the author of The Mother at Home, likewise advised that "[o]bedience is absolutely essential to proper family government." Abbott 18. Echoing Locke, Abbott warned that parents who indulged a child's "foolish and unreasonable wishes" would doom that child to be indulgent in adulthood. Id., at 16.     The concept of total parental control over children's lives extended into the schools. "The government both of families and schools should be absolute," declared Noah Webster. Rudolph 57-58. Dr. Benjamin Rush concurred: "In the education of youth, let the authority of our masters be as absolute as possible." Id., at 16. Through the doctrine of in loco parentis, teachers assumed the " 'sacred dut[y] of parents ... to train up and qualify their children' " and exercised the same authority " 'to command obedience, to control stubbornness, to quicken diligence, and to reform bad habits.' " Morse v. Frederick, 551 U. S. 393, 413-414 (2007) (Thomas, J., concurring) (quoting State v. Pendergrass, 19 N. C. 365, 365-366 (1837)); see also Wishy 73. Thus, the quality of teachers and schools had to "be watched with the most scrupulous attention." Webster, in Rudolph 64.     For their part, children were expected to be dutiful and obedient. Mintz & Kellogg 53; Wishy 31; cf. J. Kett, Rites of Passage 45 (1977). Schoolbooks instructed children to do so and frequently featured vignettes illustrating the consequences of disobedience. See Adams, "Pictures of the Vicious ultimately overcome by misery and shame": The Cultural Work of Early National Schoolbooks (hereinafter Adams), in Marten 156. One oft-related example was the hangings of 19 alleged witches in 1692, which, the schoolbooks noted, likely began with false complaints by two young girls. See J. Morse, The American Geography 191 (1789); see also Adams, in Marten 164.     An entire genre of books, "loosely termed 'advice to youth,' " taught similar lessons well into the 1800's. J. Demos, Circles and Lines: The Shape of Life in Early America 73 (2004); cf. Wishy 54. "Next to your duty to God," advised one book, "is your duty to your parents" even if the child did not "understand the reason of their commands." L. Sigourney, The Girl's Reading Book 44 (14th ed. 1843); see also Filial Duty Recommended and Enforced, Introduction, p. iii (c. 1798); The Parent's Present 44 (3d ed. 1841). "Disobedience is generally punished in some way or other," warned another, "and often very severely." S. Goodrich, Peter Parley's Book of Fables 43 (1836); see also The Country School-House 27 (1848) ("[T]he number of children who die from the effects of disobedience to their parents is very large").4     Society's concern with children's development extended to the books they read. "Vice always spreads by being published," Noah Webster observed. Rudolph 62. "[Y]oung people are taught many vices by fiction, books, or public exhibitions, vices which they never would have known had they never read such books or attended such public places." Ibid.; see also Cardell, p. xii (cautioning parents that "[t]he first reading lessons for children have an extensive influence on the acquisitions and habits of future years"); Youth's Companion 1 ("[T]he capacities of children, and the peculiar situation and duties of youth, require select and appropriate reading"). Prominent children's authors harshly criticized fairy tales and the use of anthropomorphic animals. See, e.g., S. Goodrich, 2 Recollections of a Lifetime 320, n.* (1856) (describing fairy tales as "calculated to familiarize the mind with things shocking and monstrous; to cultivate a taste for tales of bloodshed and violence; to teach the young to use coarse language, and cherish vulgar ideas; ... and to fill [the youthful mind] with the horrors of a debased and debauched fancy"); 1 id., at 167 (recalling that children's books were "full of nonsense" and "lies"); Cardell, p. xiv ("The fancy of converting inferior animals into 'teachers of children,' has been carried to ridiculous extravagance"); see also MacDonald 83, 103 (noting that fables and works of fantasy were not popular in America in the 1700's).     Adults carefully controlled what they published for children. Stories written for children were dedicated to moral instruction and were relatively austere, lacking details that might titillate children's minds. See MacLeod 24-25, 42-48; see also id., at 42 ("The authors of juvenile fiction imposed the constraints upon themselves in the name of duty, and for the sake of giving children what they thought children should have, although they were often well aware that children might prefer more exciting fare"); Francis, American Children's Literature, 1646-1880, in American Childhood 208-209 (J. Hawes & N. Hiner eds. 1985). John Newbery, the publisher often credited with creating the genre of children's literature, removed traditional folk characters, like Tom Thumb, from their original stories and placed them in new morality tales in which good children were rewarded and disobedient children punished. Reinier 12.     Parents had total authority over what their children read. See A. MacLeod, American Childhood 177 (1994) ("Ideally, if not always actually, nineteenth-century parents regulated their children's lives fully, certainly including their reading"). Lydia Child put it bluntly in The Mother's Book: "Children ... should not read anything without a mother's knowledge and sanction; this is particularly necessary between the ages of twelve and sixteen." Child 92; see also id., at 143 ("[P]arents, or some guardian friends, should carefully examine every volume they put into the hands of young people"); E. Monaghan, Learning to Read and Write in Colonial America 337 (2005) (reviewing a 12-year-old girl's journal from the early 1770's and noting that the child's aunts monitored and guided her reading).5     The law at the time reflected the founding generation's understanding of parent-child relations. According to Sir William Blackstone, parents were responsible for maintaining, protecting, and education their children, and therefore had "power" over their children. 1 Commentaries on the Laws of England 434, 440 (1765); cf. Washington v. Glucksberg, 521 U. S. 702, 712 (1997) (Blackstone's Commentaries was "a primary legal authority for 18th- and 19th-century American lawyers"). Chancellor James Kent agreed. 2 Commentaries on American Law *189-*207. The law entitled parents to "the custody of their [children]," "the value of th[e] [children's] labor and services," and the "right to the exercise of such discipline as may be requisite for the discharge of their sacred trust." Id., at *193, *203. Children, in turn, were charged with "obedience and assistance during their own minority, and gratitude and reverance during the rest of their lives." Id., at *207.     Thus, in case after case, courts made clear that parents had a right to the child's labor and services until the child reached majority. In 1810, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts explained, "There is no question but that a father, who is entitled to the services of his minor son, and for whom he is obliged to provide, may, at the common law, assign those services to others, for a consideration to enure to himself." Day v. Everett, 7 Mass. 145, 147; see also Benson v. Remington, 2 Mass. 113, 115 (1806) (opinion of Parsons, C. J.) ("The law is very well settled, that parents are under obligations to support their children, and that they are entitled to their earnings"). Similarly, the Supreme Court of Judicature of New Hampshire noted that the right of parents to recover for the services of their child, while a minor, "cannot be contested." Gale v. Parrot, 1 N. H. 28, 29 (1817). And parents could bring tort suits against those who knowingly enticed a minor away from them. See, e.g., Kirkpatrick v. Lockhart, 2 Brev. 276 (S. C. Constitutional Ct. 1809); Jones v. Tevis, 4 Litt. 25 (Ky. App. 1823).     Relatedly, boys could not enlist in the military without parental consent. Many of those who did so during the Revolutionary War found, afterwards, that their fathers were entitled to their military wages. See Cox, Boy Soldiers of the American Revolution, in Marten 21-24. And after the war, minors who enlisted without parental consent in violation of federal law could find themselves returned home on writs of habeas corpus issued at their parents' request. See, e.g., United States v. Anderson, 24 F. Cas. 813 (No. 14,449) (CC Tenn. 1812); Commonwealth v. Callan, 6 Binn. 255 (Pa. 1814) (per curiam).     Laws also set age limits restricting marriage without parental consent. For example, from 1730 until at least 1849, Pennsylvania law required parental consent for the marriage of anyone under the age of 21. See 4 Statutes at Large of Pennsylvania 153 (J. Mitchell & H. Flanders eds. 1897) (hereinafter Pa. Stats. at Large); General Laws of Pennsylvania 82-83 (J. Dunlop 2d ed. 1849) (including the 1730 marriage law with no amendments); see also Perpetual Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts 253 (1788), in The First Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (J. Cushing ed. 1981). In general, "[p]ost-Revolutionary marriage law assumed that below a certain age, children could ... no[t] intellectually understand its significance." Grossberg 105.     Indeed, the law imposed age limits on all manner of activities that required judgment and reason. Children could not vote, could not serve on juries, and generally could not be witnesses in criminal cases unless they were older than 14. See Brewer 43, 145, 148, 159. Nor could they swear loyalty to a State. See, e.g., 9 Pa. Stats. at Large 111 (1903 ed.). Early federal laws granting aliens the ability to become citizens provided that those under 21 were deemed citizens if their fathers chose to naturalize. See, e.g., Act of Mar. 26, 1790, 1 Stat. 104; Act of Jan. 29, 1795, ch. 20, 1 Stat. 415.C     The history clearly shows a founding generation that believed parents to have complete authority over their minor children and expected parents to direct the development of those children. The Puritan tradition in New England laid the foundation of American parental authority and duty. See MacDonald 6 ("The Puritans are virtually the inventors of the family as we know it today"). In the decades leading up to and following the Revolution, the conception of the child's mind evolved but the duty and authority of parents remained. Indeed, society paid closer attention to potential influences on children than before. See Mintz 72 ("By weakening earlier forms of patriarchal authority, the Revolution enhanced the importance of childrearing and education in ensuring social stability"). Teachers and schools came under scrutiny, and children's reading material was carefully supervised. Laws reflected these concerns and often supported parental authority with the coercive power of the state.IIA     In light of this history, the Framers could not possibly have understood "the freedom of speech" to include an unqualified right to speak to minors. Specifically, I am sure that the founding generation would not have understood "the freedom of speech" to include a right to speak to children without going through their parents. As a consequence, I do not believe that laws limiting such speech--for example, by requiring parental consent to speak to a minor--"abridg[e] the freedom of speech" within the original meaning of the First Amendment.     We have recently noted that this Court does not have "freewheeling authority to declare new categories of speech outside the scope of the First Amendment." Stevens, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9). But we also recognized that there may be "some categories of speech that have been historically unprotected [and] have not yet been specifically identified or discussed as such in our case law." Ibid. In my opinion, the historical evidence here plainly reveals one such category.2B     Admittedly, the original public understanding of a constitutional provision does not always comport with modern sensibilities. See Morse, 551 U. S., at 419 (Thomas, J., concurring) (treating students "as though it were still the 19th century would find little support today"). It may also be inconsistent with precedent. See McDonald, 561 U. S., at ___-___ (Thomas, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 4852) (rejecting the Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36 (1873), as inconsistent with the original public meaning of the Privileges or Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment).     This, however, is not such a case. Although much has changed in this country since the Revolution, the notion that parents have authority over their children and that the law can support that authority persists today. For example, at least some States make it a crime to lure or entice a minor away from the minor's parent. See, e.g., Cal. Penal Code Ann. §272(b)(1) (West 2008); Fla. Stat. §787.03 (2010). Every State in the Union still establishes a minimum age for marriage without parental or judicial consent. Cf. Roper v. Simmons, 543 U. S. 551, 558 (Appendix D to opinion of Court) (2005). Individuals less than 18 years old cannot enlist in the military without parental consent. 10 U. S. C. §505(a). And minors remain subject to curfew laws across the country, see Brief for Louisiana et al. as Amici Curiae 16, and cannot unilaterally consent to most medical procedures, id., at 15.     Moreover, there are many things minors today cannot do at all, whether they have parental consent or not. State laws set minimum ages for voting and jury duty. See Roper, supra, at 581-585 (Appendixes B and C to opinion of Court). In California (the State at issue here), minors cannot drive for hire or drive a school bus, Cal. Veh. Code Ann. §§12515, 12516 (West 2010), purchase tobacco, Cal. Penal Code Ann. §308(b) (West 2008), play bingo for money, §326.5(e), or execute a will, Cal. Probate Code Ann. §6220 (West 2009).     My understanding of "the freedom of speech" is also consistent with this Court's precedents. To be sure, the Court has held that children are entitled to the protection of the First Amendment, see, e.g., Erznoznik v. Jacksonville, 422 U. S. 205, 212-213 (1975), and the government may not unilaterally dictate what children can say or hear, see id., at 213-214; Tinker v. Des Moines Independent Community School Dist., 393 U. S. 503, 511 (1969). But this Court has never held, until today, that "the freedom of speech" includes a right to speak to minors (or a right of minors to access speech) without going through the minors' parents. To the contrary, "[i]t is well settled that a State or municipality can adopt more stringent controls on communicative materials available to youths than on those available to adults." Erznoznik, supra, at 212; cf. post, at 3 (Breyer, J., dissenting).     The Court's constitutional jurisprudence "historically has reflected Western civilization concepts of the family as a unit with broad parental authority over minor children." Parham v. J. R., 442 U. S. 584, 602 (1979). Under that case law, "legislature[s] [can] properly conclude that parents and others, teachers for example, who have ... primary responsibility for children's well-being are entitled to the support of laws designed to aid discharge of that responsibility." Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U. S. 629, 639 (1968); see also Bellotti v. Baird, 443 U. S. 622, 635 (1979) (opinion of Powell, J.) ("[T]he State is entitled to adjust its legal system to account for children's vulnerability and their needs for concern, ... sympathy, and ... paternal attention" (internal quotation marks omitted)). This is because "the tradition of parental authority is not inconsistent with our tradition of individual liberty; rather, the former is one of the basic presuppositions of the latter." Id., at 638; id., at 638-639 ("Legal restrictions on minors, especially those supportive of the parental role, may be important to the child's chances for the full growth and maturity that make eventual participation in a free society meaningful and rewarding").III     The California law at issue here prohibits the sale or rental of "violent video game[s]" to minors, defined as anyone "under 18 years of age." Cal. Civ. Code Ann. §§1746.1(a), 1746 (West 2009). A violation of the law is punishable by a civil fine of up to $1,000. §1746.3. Critically, the law does not prohibit adults from buying or renting violent video games for a minor or prohibit minors from playing such games. Cf. ante, at 10 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment); post, at 10 (Breyer, J., dissenting). The law also does not restrict a "minor's parent, grandparent, aunt, uncle, or legal guardian" from selling or renting him a violent video game. §1746.1(c).     Respondents, associations of companies in the video game industry, brought a preenforcement challenge to California's law, claiming that on its face the law violates the free speech rights of their members. The Court holds that video games are speech for purposes of the First Amendment and finds the statute facially unconstitutional. See ante, at 2-3, 11-17. I disagree.     Under any of this Court's standards for a facial First Amendment challenge, this one must fail. The video game associations cannot show "that no set of circumstances exists under which [the law] would be valid," "that the statute lacks any plainly legitimate sweep," or that "a substantial number of its applications are unconstitutional, judged in relation to the statute's plainly legitimate sweep." Stevens, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10) (internal quotation marks omitted). Even assuming that video games are speech, in most applications the California law does not implicate the First Amendment. All that the law does is prohibit the direct sale or rental of a violent video game to a minor by someone other than the minor's parent, grandparent, aunt, uncle, or legal guardian. Where a minor has a parent or guardian, as is usually true, the law does not prevent that minor from obtaining a violent video game with his parent's or guardian's help. In the typical case, the only speech affected is speech that bypasses a minor's parent or guardian. Because such speech does not fall within "the freedom of speech" as originally understood, California's law does not ordinarily implicate the First Amendment and is not facially unconstitutional.3*??*??*     "The freedom of speech," as originally understood, does not include a right to speak to minors without going through the minors' parents or guardians. Therefore, I cannot agree that the statute at issue is facially unconstitutional under the First Amendment.     I respectfully dissent.EDMUND G. BROWN, Jr., GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA, et al., PETITIONERS v. ENTERTAINMENT MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[June 27, 2011]     Justice Breyer, dissenting.     California imposes a civil fine of up to $1,000 upon any person who distributes a violent video game in California without labeling it "18," or who sells or rents a labeled violent video game to a person under the age of 18. Representatives of the video game and software industries, claiming that the statute violates the First Amendment on its face, seek an injunction against its enforcement. Applying traditional First Amendment analysis, I would uphold the statute as constitutional on its face and would consequently reject the industries' facial challenge.IA     California's statute defines a violent video game as: A game in which a player "kill[s], maim[s], dismember[s], or sexually assault[s] an image of a human being,"and"[a] reasonable person, considering the game as a whole, would find [the game] appeals to a deviant or morbid interest of minors,"and"[the game] is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the community as to what is suitable for minors,"and"the game, as a whole, ... lack[s] serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value for minors." Cal. Civ. Code Ann. §1746(d)(1) (West 2009).The statute in effect forbids the sale of such a game to minors unless they are accompanied by a parent; it requires the makers of the game to affix a label identifying it as a game suitable only for those aged 18 and over; it exempts retailers from liability unless such a label is properly affixed to the game; and it imposes a civil fine of up to $1,000 upon a violator. See §§1746.1-1746.3.B     A facial challenge to this statute based on the First Amendment can succeed only if "a substantial number of its applications are unconstitutional, judged in relation to the statute's plainly legitimate sweep." United States v. Stevens, 559 U. S. __, __ (2010) (slip op., at 10) (internal quotation marks omitted). Moreover, it is more difficult to mount a facial First Amendment attack on a statute that seeks to regulate activity that involves action as well as speech. See Broadrick v. Oklahoma, 413 U. S. 601, 614-615 (1973). Hence, I shall focus here upon an area within which I believe the State can legitimately apply its statute, namely sales to minors under the age of 17 (the age cutoff used by the industry's own ratings system), of highly realistic violent video games, which a reasonable game maker would know meet the Act's criteria. That area lies at the heart of the statute. I shall assume that the number of instances in which the State will enforce the statute within that area is comparatively large, and that the number outside that area (for example, sales to 17-year-olds) is comparatively small. And the activity the statute regulates combines speech with action (a virtual form of target practice).C     In determining whether the statute is unconstitutional, I would apply both this Court's "vagueness" precedents and a strict form of First Amendment scrutiny. In doing so, the special First Amendment category I find relevant is not (as the Court claims) the category of "depictions of violence," ante, at 8, but rather the category of "protection of children." This Court has held that the "power of the state to control the conduct of children reaches beyond the scope of its authority over adults." Prince v. Massachusetts, 321 U. S. 158, 170 (1944). And the " 'regulatio[n] of communication addressed to [children] need not conform to the requirements of the [F]irst [A]mendment in the same way as those applicable to adults.' " Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U. S. 629, 638, n. 6 (1968) (quoting Emerson, Toward a General Theory of the First Amendment, 72 Yale L. J. 877, 939 (1963)).     The majority's claim that the California statute, if upheld, would create a "new categor[y] of unprotected speech," ante, at 3, 6, is overstated. No one here argues that depictions of violence, even extreme violence, automatically fall outside the First Amendment's protective scope as, for example, do obscenity and depictions of child pornography. We properly speak of categories of expression that lack protection when, like "child pornography," the category is broad, when it applies automatically, and when the State can prohibit everyone, including adults, from obtaining access to the material within it. But where, as here, careful analysis must precede a narrower judicial conclusion (say, denying protection to a shout of "fire" in a crowded theater, or to an effort to teach a terrorist group how to peacefully petition the United Nations), we do not normally describe the result as creating a "new category of unprotected speech." See Schenck v. United States, 249 U. S. 47, 52 (1919); Holder v. Humanitarian Law Project, 561 U. S. __ (2010).     Thus, in Stevens, after rejecting the claim that all de-pictions of animal cruelty (a category) fall outside the First Amendment's protective scope, we went on to decide whether the particular statute at issue violates the First Amendment under traditional standards; and we held that, because the statute was overly broad, it was invalid. Similarly, here the issue is whether, applying traditional First Amendment standards, this statute does, or does not, pass muster.II     In my view, California's statute provides "fair notice of what is prohibited," and consequently it is not impermissibly vague. United States v. Williams, 553 U. S. 285, 304 (2008). Ginsberg explains why that is so. The Court there considered a New York law that forbade the sale to minors of a"picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion picture film, or similar visual representation or image of a person or portion of the human body which depicts nudity . . . ,"that"predominately appeals to the prurient, shameful or morbid interest of minors,"and"is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for minors,"and"is utterly without redeeming social importance for minors." 390 U. S., at 646-647.This Court upheld the New York statute in Ginsberg (which is sometimes unfortunately confused with a very different, earlier case, Ginzburg v. United States, 383 U. S. 463 (1966)). The five-Justice majority, in an opinion written by Justice Brennan, wrote that the statute was sufficiently clear. 390 U. S., at 643-645. No Member of the Court voiced any vagueness objection. See id., at 648-650 (Stewart, J., concurring in result); id., at 650-671 (Douglas, J., joined by Black, J., dissenting); id., at 671-675 (Fortas, J., dissenting).     Comparing the language of California's statute (set forth supra, at 1-2) with the language of New York's statute (set forth immediately above), it is difficult to find any vagueness-related difference. Why are the words "kill," "maim," and "dismember" any more difficult to understand than the word "nudity?" Justice Alito objects that these words do "not perform the narrowing function" that this Court has required in adult obscenity cases, where statutes can only cover " 'hard core' " depictions. Ante, at 6 (opinion concurring in judgment). But the relevant comparison is not to adult obscenity cases but to Ginsberg, which dealt with "nudity," a category no more "narrow" than killing and maiming. And in any event, narrowness and vagueness do not necessarily have anything to do with one another. All that is required for vagueness purposes is that the terms "kill," "maim," and "dismember" give fair notice as to what they cover, which they do.     The remainder of California's definition copies, almost word for word, the language this Court used in Miller v. California, 413 U. S. 15 (1973), in permitting a total ban on material that satisfied its definition (one enforced with criminal penalties). The California law's reliance on "community standards" adheres to Miller, and in Fort Wayne Books, Inc. v. Indiana, 489 U. S. 46, 57-58 (1989), this Court specifically upheld the use of Miller's language against charges of vagueness. California only departed from the Miller formulation in two significant respects: It substituted the word "deviant" for the words "prurient" and "shameful," and it three times added the words "for minors." The word "deviant" differs from "prurient" and "shameful," but it would seem no less suited to defining and narrowing the reach of the statute. And the addition of "for minors" to a version of the Miller standard was approved in Ginsberg, 390 U. S., at 643, even though the New York law "dr[ew] no distinction between young children and adolescents who are nearing the age of majority," ante, at 8 (opinion of Alito, J.).     Both the Miller standard and the law upheld in Ginsberg lack perfect clarity. But that fact reflects the difficulty of the Court's long search for words capable of protecting expression without depriving the State of a legitimate constitutional power to regulate. As is well known, at one point Justice Stewart thought he could do no better in defining obscenity than, "I know it when I see it." Jacobellis v. Ohio, 378 U. S. 184, 197 (1964) (concurring opinion). And Justice Douglas dissented from Miller's standard, which he thought was still too vague. 413 U. S., at 39-40. Ultimately, however, this Court accepted the "community standards" tests used in Miller and Ginsberg. They reflect the fact that sometimes, even when a precise standard proves elusive, it is easy enough to identify instances that fall within a legitimate regulation. And they seek to draw a line, which, while favoring free expression, will nonetheless permit a legislature to find the words necessary to accomplish a legitimate constitutional objective. Cf. Williams, supra, at 304 (the Constitution does not always require " 'perfect clarity and precise guidance,' " even when " 'expressive activity' " is involved).     What, then, is the difference between Ginsberg and Miller on the one hand and the California law on the other? It will often be easy to pick out cases at which California's statute directly aims, involving, say, a character who shoots out a police officer's knee, douses him with gasoline, lights him on fire, urinates on his burning body, and finally kills him with a gunshot to the head. (Footage of one such game sequence has been submitted in the record.) See also ante, at 14-15 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment). As in Miller and Ginsberg, the California law clearly protects even the most violent games that possess serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value. §1746(d)(1)(A)(iii). And it is easier here than in Miller or Ginsberg to separate the sheep from the goats at the statute's border. That is because here the industry itself has promulgated standards and created a review process, in which adults who "typically have experience with children" assess what games are inappropriate for minors. See Entertainment Software Rating Board, Rating Process, online at http://www.esrb.org/ratings/&ratings_ process.jsp (all Internet materials as visited June 24, 2011, and available in Clerk of Court's case file).     There is, of course, one obvious difference: The Ginsberg statute concerned depictions of "nudity," while California's statute concerns extremely violent video games. But for purposes of vagueness, why should that matter? Justice Alito argues that the Miller standard sufficed because there are "certain generally accepted norms concerning expression related to sex," whereas there are no similarly "accepted standards regarding the suitability of violent entertainment." Ante, at 7-8. But there is no evidence that is so. The Court relied on "community standards" in Miller precisely because of the difficulty of articulating "accepted norms" about depictions of sex. I can find no difference--historical or otherwise--that is relevant to the vagueness question. Indeed, the majority's examples of literary descriptions of violence, on which Justice Alito relies, do not show anything relevant at all.     After all, one can find in literature as many (if not more) descriptions of physical love as descriptions of violence. Indeed, sex "has been a theme in art and literature throughout the ages." Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition, 535 U. S. 234, 246 (2002). For every Homer, there is a Titian. For every Dante, there is an Ovid. And for all the teenagers who have read the original versions of Grimm's Fairy Tales, I suspect there are those who know the story of Lady Godiva.     Thus, I can find no meaningful vagueness-related dif-ferences between California's law and the New York law upheld in Ginsberg. And if there remain any vagueness problems, the state courts can cure them through interpretation. See Erznoznik v. Jacksonville, 422 U. S. 205, 216 (1975) ("[S]tate statute should not be deemed facially invalid unless it is not readily subject to a narrowing construction by the state courts"). Cf. Ginsberg, supra, at 644 (relying on the fact that New York Court of Appeals would read a knowledge requirement into the statute); Berry v. Santa Barbara, 40 Cal. App. 4th 1075, 1088-1089, 47 Cal. Rptr. 2d 661, 669 (1995) (reading a knowledge requirement into a statute). Consequently, for purposes of this facial challenge, I would not find the statute unconstitutionally vague.III     Video games combine physical action with expression. Were physical activity to predominate in a game, government could appropriately intervene, say by requiring parents to accompany children when playing a game in-volving actual target practice, or restricting the sale of toys presenting physical dangers to children. See generally Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, 122 Stat. 3016 ("Title I--Children's Product Safety"). But because video games also embody important expressive and artistic elements, I agree with the Court that the First Amendment significantly limits the State's power to regulate. And I would determine whether the State has exceeded those limits by applying a strict standard of review.     Like the majority, I believe that the California law must be "narrowly tailored" to further a "compelling interest," without there being a "less restrictive" alternative that would be "at least as effective." Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union, 521 U. S. 844, 874, 875, 879 (1997). I would not apply this strict standard "mechanically." United States v. Playboy Entertainment Group, Inc., 529 U. S. 803, 841 (2000) (Breyer, J., joined by Rehnquist, C. J., and O'Connor and Scalia, JJ., dissenting). Rather, in applying it, I would evaluate the degree to which the statute injures speech-related interests, the nature of the potentially-justifying "compelling interests," the degree to which the statute furthers that interest, the nature and effectiveness of possible alternatives, and, in light of this evaluation, whether, overall, "the statute works speech-related harm . . . out of proportion to the benefits that the statute seeks to provide." Ibid. See also Burson v. Freeman, 504 U. S. 191, 210 (1992) (plurality opinion) (applying strict scrutiny and finding relevant the lack of a "significant impingement" on speech).     First Amendment standards applied in this way are difficult but not impossible to satisfy. Applying "strict scrutiny" the Court has upheld restrictions on speech that, for example, ban the teaching of peaceful dispute resolution to a group on the State Department's list of terrorist organizations, Holder, 561 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 22-34); but cf. id., at ___ (slip op., at 1 ) (Breyer, J., dissenting), and limit speech near polling places, Burson, supra, at 210-211 (plurality opinion). And applying less clearly defined but still rigorous standards, the Court has allowed States to require disclosure of petition signers, Doe v. Reed, 561 U. S. ___ (2010), and to impose campaign contribution limits that were " 'closely drawn' to match a 'sufficiently important interest,' " Nixon v. Shrink Missouri Government PAC, 528 U. S. 377, 387-388 (2000).     Moreover, although the Court did not specify the "level of scrutiny" it applied in Ginsberg, we have subsequently described that case as finding a "compelling interest" in protecting children from harm sufficient to justify limitations on speech. See Sable Communications of Cal., Inc. v. FCC, 492 U. S. 115, 126 (1989). Since the Court in Ginsberg specified that the statute's prohibition applied to material that was not obscene, 390 U. S., at 634, I cannot dismiss Ginsberg on the ground that it concerned obscenity. But cf. ante, at 6 (majority opinion). Nor need I depend upon the fact that the Court in Ginsberg insisted only that the legislature have a "rational" basis for finding the depictions there at issue harmful to children. 390 U. S., at 639. For in this case, California has substan-tiated its claim of harm with considerably stronger evidence.A     California's law imposes no more than a modest restriction on expression. The statute prevents no one from playing a video game, it prevents no adult from buying a video game, and it prevents no child or adolescent from obtaining a game provided a parent is willing to help. §1746.1(c). All it prevents is a child or adolescent from buying, without a parent's assistance, a gruesomely violent video game of a kind that the industry itself tells us it wants to keep out of the hands of those under the age of 17. See Brief for Respondents 8.     Nor is the statute, if upheld, likely to create a precedent that would adversely affect other media, say films, or videos, or books. A typical video game involves a significant amount of physical activity. See ante, at 13-14 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment) (citing examples of the increasing interactivity of video game controllers). And pushing buttons that achieve an interactive, virtual form of target practice (using images of human beings as targets), while containing an expressive component, is not just like watching a typical movie. See infra, at 14.B     The interest that California advances in support of the statute is compelling. As this Court has previously described that interest, it consists of both (1) the "basic" parental claim "to authority in their own household to direct the rearing of their children," which makes it proper to enact "laws designed to aid discharge of [parental] responsibility," and (2) the State's "independent interest in the well-being of its youth." Ginsberg, 390 U. S., at 639-640. Cf. id., at 639, n. 7 (" '[O]ne can well distinguish laws which do not impose a morality on children, but which support the right of parents to deal with the morals of their children as they see fit' " (quoting Henkin, Morals and the Constitution: The Sin of Obscenity, 63 Colum. L. Rev. 391, 413, n. 68 (1963))). And where these interests work in tandem, it is not fatally "underinclusive" for a State to advance its interests in protecting children against the special harms present in an interactive video game medium through a default rule that still allows parents to provide their children with what their parents wish.     Both interests are present here. As to the need to help parents guide their children, the Court noted in 1968 that " 'parental control or guidance cannot always be provided.' " 390 U. S., at 640. Today, 5.3 million grade-school-age children of working parents are routinely home alone. See Dept. of Commerce, Census Bureau, Who's Minding the Kids? Child Care Arrangements: Spring 2005/Summer 2006, p. 12 (2010), online at http:// www.census.gov/prod/2010pubs/p70-121.pdf. Thus, it has, if anything, become more important to supplement parents' authority to guide their children's development.     As to the State's independent interest, we have pointed out that juveniles are more likely to show a " 'lack of maturity' " and are "more vulnerable or susceptible to negative influences and outside pressures," and that their "character . . . is not as well formed as that of an adult." Roper v. Simmons, 543 U. S. 551, 569-570 (2005). And we have therefore recognized "a compelling interest in protecting the physical and psychological well-being of minors." Sable Communications, supra, at 126.     At the same time, there is considerable evidence that California's statute significantly furthers this compelling interest. That is, in part, because video games are excellent teaching tools. Learning a practical task often means developing habits, becoming accustomed to performing the task, and receiving positive reinforcement when performing that task well. Video games can help develop habits, accustom the player to performance of the task, and reward the player for performing that task well. Why else would the Armed Forces incorporate video games into its training? See CNN, War Games: Military Training Goes High-Tech (Nov. 22, 2001), online at http://articles.cnn.com / 2001-11-2 / tech /2war.games_1_ictbill-swartout-real-world-training?_s=PM:TECH.     When the military uses video games to help soldiers train for missions, it is using this medium for a beneficial purpose. But California argues that when the teaching features of video games are put to less desirable ends, harm can ensue. In particular, extremely violent games can harm children by rewarding them for being violently aggressive in play, and thereby often teaching them to be violently aggressive in life. And video games can cause more harm in this respect than can typically passive media, such as books or films or television programs.     There are many scientific studies that support California's views. Social scientists, for example, have found causal evidence that playing these games results in harm. Longitudinal studies, which measure changes over time, have found that increased exposure to violent video games causes an increase in aggression over the same period. See Möller & Krahé, Exposure to Violent Video Games and Aggression in German Adolescents: A Longitudinal Analysis, 35 Aggressive Behavior 75 (2009); Gentile & Gentile, Violent Video Games as Exemplary Teachers: A Conceptual Analysis, 37 J. Youth & Adolescence 127 (2008); Anderson et al., Longitudinal Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggression in Japan and the United States, 122 Pediatrics e1067 (2008); Wallenius & Punamäki, Digital Game Violence and Direct Aggression in Adolescence: A Longitudinal Study of the Roles of Sex, Age, and Parent-Child Communication, 29 J. Applied Developmental Psychology 286 (2008).     Experimental studies in laboratories have found that subjects randomly assigned to play a violent video game subsequently displayed more characteristics of aggression than those who played nonviolent games. See, e.g., Anderson et al., Violent Video Games: Specific Effects of Violent Content on Aggressive Thoughts and Behavior, 36 Advances in Experimental Soc. Psychology 199 (2004).     Surveys of 8th and 9th grade students have found a correlation between playing violent video games and aggression. See, e.g., Gentile, Lynch, Linder, & Walsh, The Effects of Violent Video Game Habits On Adolescent Hostility, Aggressive Behaviors, and School Performance, 27 J. Adolescence 5 (2004).     Cutting-edge neuroscience has shown that "virtual violence in video game playing results in those neural patterns that are considered characteristic for aggressive cognition and behavior." Weber, Ritterfeld, & Mathiak, Does Playing Violent Video Games Induce Aggression? Empirical Evidence of a Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Study, 8 Media Psychology 39, 51 (2006).     And "meta-analyses," i.e., studies of all the studies, have concluded that exposure to violent video games "was positively associated with aggressive behavior, aggressive cognition, and aggressive affect," and that "playing violent video games is a causal risk factor for long-term harmful outcomes." Anderson et al., Violent Video Game Effects on Aggression, Empathy, and Prosocial Behavior in Eastern and Western Countries: A Meta-Analytic Review, 136 Psychological Bulletin 151, 167, 169 (2010) (emphasis added).     Some of these studies take care to explain in a common- sense way why video games are potentially more harmful than, say, films or books or television. In essence, they say that the closer a child's behavior comes, not to watching, but to acting out horrific violence, the greater the potential psychological harm. See Bushman & Huesmann, Aggression, in 2 Handbook of Social Pscyhology 833, 851 (S. Fiske, D. Gilbert, & G. Lindzey eds., 5th ed. 2010) (video games stimulate more aggression because "[p]eople learn better when they are actively involved," players are "more likely to identify with violent characters," and "violent games directly reward violent behavior"); Polman, de Castro, & van Aken, Experimental Study of the Differential Effects of Playing Versus Watching Violent Video Games on Children's Aggressive Behavior, 34 Aggressive Behavior 256 (2008) (finding greater aggression resulting from playing, as opposed to watching, a violent game); C. Anderson, D. Gentile, & K. Buckley, Violent Video Game Effects on Children and Adolescents 136-137 (2007) (three studies finding greater effects from games as opposed to television). See also infra, at 15-16 (statements of expert public health associations agreeing that interactive games can be more harmful than "passive" media like television); ante, at 12-17 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment).     Experts debate the conclusions of all these studies. Like many, perhaps most, studies of human behavior, each study has its critics, and some of those critics have produced studies of their own in which they reach different conclusions. (I list both sets of research in the appendixes.) I, like most judges, lack the social science expertise to say definitively who is right. But associations of public health professionals who do possess that expertise have reviewed many of these studies and found a significant risk that violent video games, when compared with more passive media, are particularly likely to cause children harm.     Eleven years ago, for example, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, the American Psychological Association, the American Medical Association, the American Academy of Family Physicians, and the American Psychiatric Association released a joint statement, which said:"[O]ver 1000 studies . . . point overwhelmingly to a causal connection between media violence and aggressive behavior in some children . . . [and, though less research had been done at that time, preliminary studies indicated that] the impact of violent interactive entertainment (video games and other interactive media) on young people . . . may be significantly more severe than that wrought by television, movies, or music." Joint Statement on the Impact of Entertainment Violence on Children (2000) (emphasis added), online at http://www.aap.org/advocacy/releases/jstmtevc.htm.     Five years later, after more research had been done, the American Psychological Association adopted a resolution that said:"[C]omprehensive analysis of violent interactive video game research suggests such exposure . . . increases aggressive behavior, . . . increases aggressive thoughts, . . . increases angry feelings, . . . decreases helpful behavior, and . . . increases physiological arousal." Resolution on Violence in Video Games and Interactive Media (2005), online at http:// www.apa.org / about / governance / council / policy/ interactive-media.pdf.The Association added:"[T]he practice, repetition, and rewards for acts of violence may be more conducive to increasing aggressive behavior among children and youth than passively watching violence on TV and in films." Ibid. (emphasis added).Four years after that, in 2009, the American Academy of Pediatrics issued a statement in significant part about interactive media. It said:"Studies of these rapidly growing and ever-more-sophisticated types of media have indicated that the effects of child-initiated virtual violence may be even more profound than those of passive media such as television. In many games the child or teenager is 'embedded' in the game and uses a 'joystick' (handheld controller) that enhances both the experience and the aggressive feelings." Policy Statement--Media Violence, 124 Pediatrics 1495, 1498 (2009) (emphasis added).It added:"Correlational and experimental studies have revealed that violent video games lead to increases in aggressive behavior and aggressive thinking and decreases in prosocial behavior. Recent longitudinal studies . . . have revealed that in as little as 3 months, high exposure to violent video games increased physical aggression. Other recent longitudinal studies . . . have revealed similar effects across 2 years." Ibid. (footnotes omitted).     Unlike the majority, I would find sufficient grounds in these studies and expert opinions for this Court to defer to an elected legislature's conclusion that the video games in question are particularly likely to harm children. This Court has always thought it owed an elected legislature some degree of deference in respect to legislative facts of this kind, particularly when they involve technical matters that are beyond our competence, and even in First Amendment cases. See Holder, 561 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 28-29) (deferring, while applying strict scrutiny, to the Government's national security judgments); Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, 520 U. S. 180, 195-196 (1997) (deferring, while applying intermediate scrutiny, to the Government's technological judgments). The majority, in reaching its own, opposite conclusion about the validity of the relevant studies, grants the legislature no deference at all. Compare ante, at 12-13 (stating that the studies do not provide evidence that violent video games "cause" harm (emphasis deleted)), with supra, at 12-13 (citing longitudinal studies finding causation).C     I can find no "less restrictive" alternative to California's law that would be "at least as effective." See Reno, 521 U. S., at 874. The majority points to a voluntary alternative: The industry tries to prevent those under 17 from buying extremely violent games by labeling those games with an "M" (Mature) and encouraging retailers to restrict their sales to those 17 and older. See ante, at 15-16. But this voluntary system has serious enforcement gaps. When California enacted its law, a Federal Trade Commission (FTC) study had found that nearly 70% of unaccompanied 13- to 16-year-olds were able to buy M-rated video games. FTC, Marketing Violent Entertainment to Children 27 (2004), online at http://www.ftc.gov/os/2004/ 07/040708kidsviolencerpt.pdf. Subsequently the voluntary program has become more effective. But as of the FTC's most recent update to Congress, 20% of those under 17 are still able to buy M-rated video games, and, breaking down sales by store, one finds that this number rises to nearly 50% in the case of one large national chain. FTC, Marketing Violent Entertainment to Children 28 (2009), online at http://www.ftc.gov/os/2009/12/ P994511violententertainment.pdf. And the industry could easily revert back to the substantial noncompliance that existed in 2004, particularly after today's broad ruling reduces the industry's incentive to police itself.     The industry also argues for an alternative technological solution, namely "filtering at the console level." Brief for Respondents 53. But it takes only a quick search of the Internet to find guides explaining how to circumvent any such technological controls. YouTube viewers, for example, have watched one of those guides (called "How to bypass parental controls on the Xbox 360") more than 47,000 times. See http://www.youtube.com/watch?v= CFlVfVmvN6k.IV     The upshot is that California's statute, as applied to its heartland of applications (i.e., buyers under 17; extremely violent, realistic video games), imposes a restriction on speech that is modest at most. That restriction is justified by a compelling interest (supplementing parents' efforts to prevent their children from purchasing potentially harmful violent, interactive material). And there is no equally effective, less restrictive alternative. California's statute is consequently constitutional on its face--though litigants remain free to challenge the statute as applied in particular instances, including any effort by the State to apply it to minors aged 17.     I add that the majority's different conclusion creates a serious anomaly in First Amendment law. Ginsberg makes clear that a State can prohibit the sale to minors of depictions of nudity; today the Court makes clear that a State cannot prohibit the sale to minors of the most violent interactive video games. But what sense does it make to forbid selling to a 13-year-old boy a magazine with an image of a nude woman, while protecting a sale to that 13-year-old of an interactive video game in which he actively, but virtually, binds and gags the woman, then tortures and kills her? What kind of First Amendment would permit the government to protect children by restricting sales of that extremely violent video game only when the woman--bound, gagged, tortured, and killed--is also topless?     This anomaly is not compelled by the First Amendment. It disappears once one recognizes that extreme violence, where interactive, and without literary, artistic, or similar justification, can prove at least as, if not more, harmful to children as photographs of nudity. And the record here is more than adequate to support such a view. That is why I believe that Ginsberg controls the outcome here a fortiori. And it is why I believe California's law is constitutional on its face.     This case is ultimately less about censorship than it is about education. Our Constitution cannot succeed in securing the liberties it seeks to protect unless we can raise future generations committed cooperatively to making our system of government work. Education, however, is about choices. Sometimes, children need to learn by making choices for themselves. Other times, choices are made for children--by their parents, by their teachers, and by the people acting democratically through their governments. In my view, the First Amendment does not disable government from helping parents make such a choice here--a choice not to have their children buy extremely violent, interactive video games, which they more than reasonably fear pose only the risk of harm to those children.     For these reasons, I respectfully dissent.APPENDIXES     With the assistance of the Supreme Court Library, I have compiled these two appendixes listing peer-reviewed academic journal articles on the topic of psychological harm resulting from playing violent video games. The library conducted a search for relevant articles on the following databases: PsycINFO, PubMed, Academic Search Premier, ArticleFirst (OCLC), and Dialog (files 1, 7, 34, 98, 121, 142, 144, 149). The following search terms were used: "(video* or computer or arcade or online) and (game*) and (attack* or fight* or aggress* or violen* or hostil* or ang* or arous* or prosocial or help* or desens* or empathy)." After eliminating irrelevant matches based on title or abstract, I categorized these articles as either supporting the hypothesis that violent video games are harmful (listed in Appendix A), or not supporting/rejecting the hypothesis that violent video games are harmful (listed in Appendix B).     Many, but not all, of these articles were available to the California Legislature or the parties in briefing this case. I list them because they suggest that there is substantial (though controverted) evidence supporting the expert associations of public health professionals that have concluded that violent video games can cause children psychological harm. See supra, at 15-16. And consequently, these studies help to substantiate the validity of the original judgment of the California Legislature, as well as that judgment's continuing validity.AAnderson & Bushman, Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggressive Behavior, Aggressive Cognition, Aggressive Affect, Physiological Arousal, and Prosocial Behavior: A Meta-Analytic Review of the Scientific Literature, 12 Psychological Science: J. Am. Psychological Society 353 (2001).Anderson & Dill, Video Games and Aggressive Thoughts, Feelings, & Behavior in the Laboratory and in Life, 78 J. Personality & Soc. Psychology 772 (2000).Anderson et al., Violent Video Games: Specific Effects of Violent Content on Aggressive Thoughts and Behavior, 36 Advances in Experimental Soc. Psychology 199 (2004).Anderson & Ford, Affect of the Game Player: Short-Term Effects of Highly and Mildly Aggressive Video Games, 12 Personality & Soc. Psychology Bull. 390 (1986).Anderson & Morrow, Competitive Aggression Without Interaction: Effects of Competitive Versus Cooperative Instructions on Aggressive Behavior in Video Games, 21 Personality & Soc. Psychology Bull. 1020 (1995).Anderson et al., Longitudinal Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggression in Japan and the United States, 122 Pediatrics e1067 (2008).Anderson et al., Violent Video Game Effects on Aggression, Empathy, and Prosocial Behavior in Eastern and Western Countries: A Meta-Analytic Review, 136 Psychological Bull. 151 (2010).Anderson, An Update on the Effects of Playing Violent Video Games, 27 J. Adolescence 113 (2004).Anderson et al., The Influence of Media Violence on Youth, 4 Psychological Science in the Public Interest 81 (2003).Anderson & Carnagey, Causal Effects of Violent Sports Video Games on Aggression: Is it Competitiveness or Violent Content? 45 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 731 (2009).Anderson & Murphy, Violent Video Games and Aggressive Behavior in Young Women, 29 Aggressive Behavior 423 (2003).Arriaga, Esteves, Carneiro, & Monteiro, Violent Computer Games and Their Effects on State Hostility and Physiological Arousal, 32 Aggressive Behavior 358 (2006).Arriaga, Esteves, Carneiro, & Monteiro, Are the Effects of Unreal Violent Video Games Pronounced When Playing With a Virtual Reality System? 34 Aggressive Behavior 521 (2008).Baldaro et al., Aggressive and Non-Violent Videogames: Short-Term Psychological and Cardiovascular Effects on Habitual Players, 20 Stress & Health: J. Int'l Society for Investigation of Stress 203 (2004).Ballard, Hamby, Panee, & Nivens, Repeated Exposure to Video Game Play Results in Decreased Blood Pressure Responding, 8 Media Psychology 323 (2006).Ballard & Lineberger, Video Game Violence and Confederate Gender: Effects on Reward and Punishment Given by College Males, 41 Sex Roles 541 (1999).Ballard & Wiest, Mortal Kombat (tm): The Effects of Violent Videogame Play on Males' Hostility and Cardiovascular Responding, 26 J. Applied Soc. Psychology 717 (1996).Barlett, Branch, Rodeheffer, & Harris, How Long do the Short-Term Violent Video Game Effects Last? 35 Aggressive Behavior 225 (2009).Barlett, Rodeheffer, Baldassaro, Hinkin, & Harris, The Effect of Advances in Video Game Technology and Content on Aggressive Cognitions, Hostility, and Heart Rate, 11 Media Psychology 540 (2008).Barlett, Harris, & Baldassaro, Longer You Play, the More Hostile You Feel: Examination of First Person Shooter Video Games and Aggression During Video Game Play, 33 Aggressive Behavior 486 (2007).Barlett, Harris, & Bruey, The Effect of the Amount of Blood in a Violent Video Game on Aggression, Hostility, and Arousal, 44 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 539 (2008).Barlett & Rodeheffer, Effects of Realism on Extended Violent and Nonviolent Video Game Play on Aggressive Thoughts, Feelings, and Physiological Arousal, 35 Aggressive Behavior 213 (2009).Barlett, Anderson, & Swing, Video Game Effects--Confirmed, Suspected, and Speculative: A Review of the Evidence, 40 Simulation & Gaming 377 (2009).Bartholow, Sestir, & Davis, Correlates and Consequences of Exposure to Video Game Violence: Hostile Personality, Empathy, and Aggressive Behavior, 31 Personality & Soc. Psychology Bull. 1573 (2005).Bartholow & Anderson, Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggressive Behavior: Potential Sex Differences, 38 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 283 (2002).Bartholow, Bushman, & Sestir, Chronic Violent Video Game Exposure and Desensitization to Violence: Behavioral and Event-Related Brain Potential Data, 42 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 532 (2006).Bluemke, Friedrich, & Zumbach, The Influence of Violent and Nonviolent Computer Games on Implicit Measures of Aggressiveness, 36 Aggressive Behavior 1 (2010).Brady & Matthews, Effects of Media Violence on Health-Related Outcomes Among Young Men, 160 Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Med. 341 (2006).Browne & Hamilton-Giachritsis, The Influence of Violent Media on Children and Adolescents: A Public-Health Approach, 365 Lancet 702 (2005).Bushman & Anderson, Violent Video Games and Hostile Expectations: A Test of the General Aggression Model, 28 Personality & Soc. Psychology Bull. 1679 (2002).Bushman & Anderson, Comfortably Numb: Desensitizing Effects of Violent Media on Helping Others, 20 Psychological Science: J. Am. Psychological Society 273 (2009).Bushman, Rothstein, & Anderson, Much Ado About Something: Violent Video Game Effects and a School of Red Herring: Reply to Ferguson and Kilburn, 136 Psychological Bull. 182 (2010).Calvert & Tan, Impact of Virtual Reality on Young Adults' Physiological Arousal and Aggressive Thoughts: Interaction Versus Observation, 15 J. Applied Developmental Psychology 125 (1994).Carnagey, Anderson, & Bartholow, Media Violence and Social Neuroscience: New Questions and New Opportunities, 16 Current Directions in Psychological Science 178 (2007).Carnagey & Anderson, Violent Video Game Exposure and Aggression: A Literature Review, 45 Minerva Psichiatrica 1 (2004).Carnagey & Anderson, The Effects of Reward and Punishment in Violent Video Games on Aggressive Affect, Cognition, and Behavior, 16 Psychological Science: J. Am. Psychological Society 882 (2005).Carnagey, Anderson, & Bushman, The Effect of Video Game Violence on Physiological Desensitization to Real-life Violence, 43 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 489 (2007).Chambers & Ascione, The Effects of Prosocial and Aggressive Videogames on Children's Donating and Helping, 148 J. Genetic Psychology: Research and Theory on Human Development 499 (1987).Chory & Cicchirillo, The Relationship Between Video Game Play and Trait Verbal Aggressiveness: An Application of the General Aggression Model, 24 Communications Research Reports 113 (2007).Cicchirillo & Chory-Assad, Effects of Affective Orientation and Video Game Play on Aggressive Thoughts and Behaviors, 49 J. Broadcasting & Electronic Media 435 (2005).Colwell & Payne, Negative Correlates of Computer Game Play in Adolescents, 91 British J. Psychology 295 (2000).Cooper & Mackie, Video Games and Aggression in Children, 16 J. Applied Soc. Psychology 726 (1986).Deselms & Altman, Immediate and Prolonged Effects of Videogame Violence, 33 J. Applied Soc. Psychology 1553 (2003).Dill & Dill, Video Game Violence: A Review of the Empirical Literature, 3 Aggression & Violent Behavior 407 (1998).Do&dsign;an, Video Games and Children: Violence in Video Games, 44 Yeni Symposium 161 (2006).Eastin, Video Game Violence and the Female Game Player: Self- and Opponent Gender Effects on Presence and Aggressive Thoughts, 32 Human Communication Research 351 (2006).Emes, Is Mr Pac Man Eating Our Children? A Review of the Effect of Video Games on Children, 42 Canadian J. Psychiatry 409 (1997).Farrar, Krcmar, & Nowak, Contextual Features of Violent Video Games, Mental Models, and Aggression, 56 J. Communication 387 (2006).Fischer, Kastenmüller, & Greitemeyer, Media Violence and the Self: The Impact of Personalized Gaming Characters in Aggressive Video Games on Aggressive Behavior, 46 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 192 (2010).Funk, Children's Exposure to Violent Video Games and Desensitization to Violence, 14 Child & Adolescent Psychiatric Clinics North Am. 387 (2005).Funk, Video Games, 16 Adolescent Med. Clinics 395 (2005).Funk, Baldacci, Pasold, & Baumgardner, Violence Exposure in Real-Life, Video Games, Television, Movies, and the Internet: Is There Desensitization? 27 J. Adolescence 23 (2004).Funk, Buchman, Jenks, & Bechtoldt, Playing Violent Video Games, Desensitization, and Moral Evaluation in Children, 24 J. Applied Developmental Psychology 413 (2003).Funk et al., Aggression and Psychopathology in Adolescents with a Preference for Violent Electronic Games, 28 Aggressive Behavior 134 (2002).Funk, Buchman, Jenks, & Bechtoldt, An Evidence-Based Approach to Examining the Impact of Playing Violent Video and Computer Games, SIMILE: Studies in Media & Information Literacy Educ., vol. 2, no. 4, p. 1 (Nov. 2002).Gentile & Stone, Violent Video Game Effects on Children and Adolescents: A Review of the Literature, 57 Minerva Pediatrica 337 (2005).Gentile et al., The Effects of Prosocial Video Games on Prosocial Behaviors: International Evidence From Correlational, Longitudinal, and Experimental Studies, 35 Personality & Soc. Psychology Bull. 752 (2009).Gentile, Lynch, Linder, & Walsh, The Effects of Violent Video Game Habits on Adolescent Hostility, Aggressive Behaviors, and School Performance, 27 J. Adolescence 5 (2004).Gentile & Gentile, Violent Video Games as Exemplary Teachers: A Conceptual Analysis, 37 J. Youth & Adolescence 127 (2008).Giumetti & Markey, Violent Video Games and Anger as Predictors of Aggression, 41 J. Research in Personality 1234 (2007).Graybill, Kirsch, & Esselman, Effects of Playing Violent Versus Nonviolent Video Games on the Aggressive Ideation of Aggressive and Nonaggressive Children, 15 Child Study J. 199 (1985).Grigoryan, Stepanyan, Stepanyan, & Agababyan, Influence of Aggressive Computer Games on the Brain Cortex Activity Level in Adolescents, 33 Human Physiology 34 (2007).Hastings et al., Young Children's Video/Computer Game Use: Relations With School Performance and Behavior, 30 Issues in Mental Health Nursing 638 (2009).Huesmann, Nailing the Coffin Shut on Doubts That Violent Video Games Stimulate Aggression: Comment on Anderson et al., 136 Psychological Bull. 179 (2010).Huesmann, The Impact of Electronic Media Violence: Scientific Theory and Research, 41 J. Adolescent Health S6 (2007).Huesmann & Taylor, The Role of Media Violence in Violent Behavior, 27 Annual Rev. Public Health 393 (2006).Hummer et al., Short-Term Violent Video Game Play by Adolescents Alters Prefrontal Activity During Cognitive Inhibition, 13 Media Psychology 136 (2010).Irwin & Gross, Cognitive Temp, Violent Video Games, and Aggressive Behavior in Young Boys, 10 J. Family Violence 337 (1995).Kirsh & Mounts, Violent Video Game Play impacts Facial Emotion Recognition, 33 Aggressive Behavior 353 (2007).Kirsh, Mounts, & Olczak, Violent Media Consumption and the Recognition of Dynamic Facial Expressions, 21 J. Interpersonal Violence 571 (2006).Kirsh, Olczak, & Mounts, Violent Video Games Induce an Affect Processing Bias, 7 Media Psychology 239 (2005).Kirsh, The Effects of Violent Video Games on Adolescents: The Overlooked Influence of Development, 8 Aggression & Violent Behavior 377 (2003).Kirsh, Seeing the World Through Mortal Kombat-Colored Glasses: Violent Video Games and the Development of a Short-term Hostile Attribution Bias, 5 Childhood 177 (1998).Konijn, Bijvank, & Bushman, I Wish I Were a Warrior: The Role of Wishful Identification in the Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggression in Adolescent Boys, 43 Developmental Psychology 1038 (2007).Krahé & Möller, Playing Violent Electronic Games, Hostile Attributional Style, and Aggression-related Norms in German Adolescents, 27 J. Adolescence 53 (2004).Krcmar, Farrar, & McGloin, The Effects of Video Game Realism on Attention, Retention and Aggressive Outcomes, 27 Computers in Human Behavior 432 (2011).Krcmar & Lachlan, Aggressive Outcomes and Videogame Play: The Role of Length of Play and the Mechanisms at Work, 12 Media Psychology 249 (2009).Krcmar & Farrar, Retaliatory Aggression and the Effects of Point of View and Blood in Violent Video Games, 12 Mass Communication & Society 115 (2009).Kronenberger et al., Media Violence Exposure in Aggressive and Control Adolescents: Differences in Self- and Parent-Reported Exposure to Violence on Television and in Video Games, 31 Aggressive Behavior 201 (2005).Kronenberger et al., Media Violence Exposure and Executive Functioning in Aggressive and Control Adolescents, 61 J. Clinical Psychology 725 (2005).Kuntsche, Hostility Among Adolescents in Switzerland? Multivariate Relations Between Excessive Media Use and Forms of Violence, 34 J. Adolescent Health 230 (2004).Lee, Peng, & Klein, Will the Experience of Playing a Violent Role in a Video Game Influence People's Judgments of Violent Crimes? 26 Computers in Human Behavior 1019 (2010).Lemmens & Bushman, The Appeal of Violent Video Games to Lower Educated Aggressive Adolescent Boys From Two Countries, 9 CyberPsychology & Behavior 638 (2006).Mathiak & Weber, Toward Brain Correlates of Natural Behavior: fMRI During VIolent Video Games, 27 Human Brain Mapping 948 (2006).Möller & Krahé, Exposure to Violent Video Games and Aggression in German Adolescents: A Longitudinal Analysis, 35 Aggressive Behavior 75 (2009).Nowak, Krcmar, & Farrar, The Causes and Consequences of Presence: Considering the Influence of Violent Video Games on Presence and Aggression, 17 Presence: Teleoperators & Virtual Environments 256 (2008).Olson et al., M-Rated Video Games and Aggressive or Problem Behavior Among Young Adolescents, 13 Applied Developmental Science 188 (2009).Panee & Ballard, High Versus Low Aggressive Priming During Video-Game Training: Effects on Violent Action During Game Play, Hostility, Heart Rate, and Blood Pressure, 32 J. Applied Soc. Psychology 2458 (2002).Persky & Blascovich, Immersive Virtual Environments Versus Traditional Platforms: Effects of Violent and Nonviolent Video Game Play, 10 Media Psychology 135 (2007).Persky & Blascovich, Immersive Virtual Video Game Play and Presence: Influences on Aggressive Feelings and Behavior, 17 Presence: Teleoperators & Virtual Environments 57 (2008).Polman, de Castro, & van Aken, Experimental Study of the Differential Effects of Playing Versus Watching Violent Video Games on Children's Aggressive Behavior, 34 Aggressive Behavior 256 (2008).Potera, Sex and Violence in the Media Influence Teen Behavior: Three Studies Show a Correlation, 109 American J. Nursing 20 (2009).Richmond & Wilson, Are Graphic Media Violence, Aggression, and Moral Disengagement Related? 15 Psychiatry, Psychology & Law 350 (2008).Schaefer & Harrison, The Effects of Violent Fantasy on Children's Aggressive Behavior, 41 Psychology & Educ. 35 (2004).Schmierbach, "Killing Spree": Exploring the Connection Between Competitive Game Play and Aggressive Cognition, 37 Communication Research 256 (2010).Sheese & Graziano, Deciding to Defect: The Effects of Video-Game Violence on Cooperative Behavior, 16 Psychological Science: J. Am. Psychological Society 354 (2005).Sherry, The Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggression. A Meta-Analysis, 27 Human Communication Research 409 (2001).Shibuya, Sakamoto, Ihori, & Yukawa, The Effects of the Presence and Contexts of Video Game Violence on Children: A Longitudinal Study in Japan, 39 Simulation & Gaming 528 (2008).Sigurdsson, Gudjonsson, Bragason, Kristjansdottir, & Sigfusdottir, The Role of Violent Cognition in the Relationship Between Personality and the Involvement in Violent Films and Computer Games, 41 Personality & Individual Differences 381 (2006).Silvern & Williamson, The Effects of Video Game Play on Young Children's Aggression, Fantasy, and Prosocial behavior, 8 J. Applied Developmental Psychology 453 (1987).Slater, Henry, Swaim, & Cardador, Vulnerable Teens, Vulnerable Times: How Sensation Seeking, Alienation, and Victimization Moderate the Violent Media Content--Aggressiveness Relation, 31 Communication Research 642 (2004).Slater, Henry, Swaim, & Anderson, Violent Media Content and Aggressiveness in Adolescents: A Downward Spiral Model, 30 Communication Research 713 (2003).Staude-Müller, Bliesener, & Luthman, Hostile and Hardened? An Experimental Study on (De-)sensitization to Violence and Suffering Through Playing Video Games, 67 Swiss J. Psychology 41 (2008).Steward & Follina, Informing Policies in Forensic Settings: A Review of Research Investigating the Effects of Exposure to Media Violence on Challenging/Offending Behaviour, 8 British J. Forensic Prac. 31 (2006).Swing & Anderson, The Unintended Negative Consequences of Exposure to Violent Video games, 12 Int. J. Cognitive Tech. 3 (2007).Tamborini et al., Violent Virtual Video Games and Hostile Thoughts, 48 J. Broadcasting & Electronic Media 335 (2004).Uhlmann & Swanson, Exposure to Violent Video Games Increases Automatic Aggressiveness, 27 J. Adolescence 41 (2004).Vaughan, Inadvertent Script Change and Increased Propensity for Violence: The Danger of Interactive Video Games, 34 Transactional Analysis J. 30 (2004).Wallenius & Punamäki, Digital Game Violence and Direct Aggression in Adolescence: A Longitudinal Study of the Roles of Sex, Age, and Parent-Child Communication, 29 J. Applied Developmental Psychology 286 (2008).Wallenius, Punamäki, & Rimpelä, Digital Game Playing and Direct and Indirect Aggression in Early Adolescence: The Roles of Age, Social Intelligence, and Parent-Child Communication, 36 J. Youth and Adolescence 325 (2007).Wang et al., Short Term Exposure to a Violent Video Game Induces Changes in Frontolimbic Circuitry in Adolescents, 3 Brain Imaging & Behavior 38 (2009).Weber, Ritterfeld, & Mathiak, Does Playing Violent Video Games Induce Aggression? Empirical Evidence of a Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Study, 8 Media Psychology 39 (2006).Wiegman & van Schie, Video Game Playing and its Relations With Aggressive and Prosocial Behaviour, 37 British J. Soc. Psychology 367 (1998).Williams, The Effects of Frustration, Violence, and Trait Hostility After Playing a Video Game, 12 Mass Communication & Society 291 (2009).Ybarra et al., Linkages Between Internet and Other Media Violence With Seriously Violent Behavior by Youth, 122 Pediatrics 929 (2008).BBensley & Van Eenwyk, Video Games and Real-Life Aggression: Review of the Literature, 29 J. Adolescent Health 244 (2001).Bösche, Violent Content Enhances Video Game Performance, 21 J. Media Psychology: Theories, Methods, and Applications 145 (2009).Colwell & Kato, Video Game Play in British and Japanese Adolescents, 36 Simulation & Gaming 518 (2005).Colwell & Kato, Investigation of the Relationship Between Social Isolation, Self-Esteem, Aggression and Computer Game Play in Japanese Adolescents, 6 Asian J. Soc. Psychology 149 (2003).Dominick, Videogames, Television Violence, and Aggression in Teenagers, 34 J. Communication 136 (1984).Ferguson, Blazing Angels or Resident Evil? Can Violent Video Games be a Force For Good? 14 Rev. Gen. Psychology 68 (2010).Ferguson, Violent Video Games: Dogma, Fear, Pseudoscience, 33 Skeptical Inquirer 38 (2009).Ferguson, The Good, The Bad and the Ugly: A Meta-analytic Review of Positive and Negative Effects of Violent Video Games, 78 Psychiatric Q. 309 (2007).Ferguson & Meehan, Saturday Night's Alright for Fighting: Antisocial Traits, Fighting, and Weapons Carrying in a Large Sample of Youth, 81 Psychiatric Q. 293 (2010).Ferguson et al., Violent Video Games and Aggression, 35 Crim. Justice & Behavior 311 (2008).Ferguson, Research on the Effects of Violent Video Games: A Critical Analysis, 3 Soc. & Personality Psychology Compass 351 (2009).Ferguson & Rueda, The Hitman Study: Violent Video Game Exposure Effects on Aggressive Behavior, Hostile Feelings, and Depression, 15 European Psychologist 99 (2010).Ferguson, San Miguel, & Hartley, A Multivariate Analysis of Youth Violence and Aggression: The Influence of Family, Peers, Depression, and Media Violence, 155 J. Pediatrics 904 (2009).Ferguson, Evidence for Publication Bias in Video Game Violence Effects Literature: A Meta-Analytic Review, 12 Aggression & Violent Behavior 470 (2007).Ferguson, The School Shooting/Violent Video Game Link: Causal Relationship or Moral Panic? 5 J. Investigative Psychology & Offender Profiling 25 (2008).Ferguson et al., Personality, Parental, and Media Influences on Aggressive Personality and Violent Crime in Young Adults, 17 J. Aggression, Maltreatment & Trauma 395 (2008).Ferguson & Kilburn, Much Ado About Nothing: The Misestimation and Overinterpretation of Violent Video Game Effects in Eastern and Western Nations: Comment on Anderson et al. (2010), 136 Psychological Bull. 174 (2010).Fleming & Rickwood, Effects of Violent Versus Nonviolent Video Games on Children's Arousal, Aggressive Mood, and Positive Mood, 31 J. Applied Soc. Psychology 2047 (2001).Griffiths, Violent Video Games and Aggression: A Review of the Literature, 4 Aggression & Violent Behavior 203 (1999).Griffiths, Video Games and Aggression, 10 The Psychologist 397 (1997).Ivory & Kalyanaraman, The Effects of Technological Advancement and Violent Content in Video Games on Players' Feelings of Presence, Involvement, Physiological Arousal, and Aggression, 57 J. Communication 532 (2007).Kestenbaum & Weinstein, Personality, Psychopathology, and Developmental Issues in Male Adolescent Video Game Use, 24 J. Am. Academy Child Psychology 329 (1985).Markey & Markey, Vulnerability to Violent Video Games: A Review and Integration of Personality Research, 14 Rev. Gen. Psychology 82 (2010).Markey & Scherer, An Examination of Psychoticism and Motion Capture Controls as Moderators of the Effects of Violent Video Games, 25 Computers in Human Behavior 407 (2009).Mitrofan, Paul, & Spencer, Is Aggression in Children With Behavioural and Emotional Difficulties Associated With Television Viewing and Video Game Playing? A Systematic Review, 35 Child: Care, Health & Development 5 (2009).Olson, Media Violence Research and Youth Violence Data: Why Do They Conflict? 28 Academic Psychiatry 144 (2004).Porter & Starcevic, Are Violent Video Games Harmful? 15 Australasian Psychiatry 422 (2007).Regenbogen, Herrmann, & Fehr, The Neural Processing of Voluntary Completed, Real and Virtual Violent and NonViolent Computer Game Scenarios Displaying Predefined Actions in Gamers and Nongamers, 5 Soc. Neuroscience 221 (2010).Scott, The Effect of Video Games on Feelings of Aggression, 129 J. Psychology 121 (1995).Sestir & Bartholow, Violent and Nonviolent Video Games Produce Opposing Effects on Aggressive and Prosocial Outcomes, 46 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 934 (2010).Unsworth, Devilly, & Ward, The Effect of Playing Violent Video Games on Adolescents: Should Parents be Quaking in Their Boots? 13 Psychology, Crime & Law 383 (2007).Unsworth & Ward, Video Games and Aggressive Behavior. 36 Australian Psychologist 184 (2001).Williams & Skoric, Internet Fantasy Violence: A Test of Aggression in an Online Game, 72 Communication Monographs 217 (2005).Winkel, Novak, & Hopson, Personality Factors, Subject Gender, and the Effects of Aggressive Video Games on Aggression in Adolescents, 21 J. Research in Personality 211 (1987).FOOTNOTESThe Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970 (FCRA) requires consumer reporting agencies to "follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of" consumer reports, 15 U. S. C. §1681e(b), and imposes liability on "[a]ny person who willfully fails to comply with any requirement [of the Act] with respect to any" individual, §1681n(a).          Petitioner Spokeo, Inc., an alleged consumer reporting agency, operates a "people search engine," which searches a wide spectrum of databases to gather and provide personal information about individuals to a variety of users, including employers wanting to evaluate prospective employees. After respondent Thomas Robins discovered that his Spokeo-generated profile contained inaccurate information, he filed a federal class-action complaint against Spokeo, alleging that the company willfully failed to comply with the FCRA's requirements.          The District Court dismissed Robins' complaint, holding that he had not properly pleaded injury in fact as required by Article III. The Ninth Circuit reversed. Based on Robins' allegation that "Spokeo violated his statutory rights" and the fact that Robins' "personal interests in the handling of his credit information are individualized," the court held that Robins had adequately alleged an injury in fact.Held: Because the Ninth Circuit failed to consider both aspects of the injury-in-fact requirement, its Article III standing analysis was incomplete. Pp. 5-11.     (a) A plaintiff invoking federal jurisdiction bears the burden of establishing the "irreducible constitutional minimum" of standing by demonstrating (1) an injury in fact, (2) fairly traceable to the challenged conduct of the defendant, and (3) likely to be redressed by a favorable judicial decision. Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 560-561. Pp. 5-6.     (b) As relevant here, the injury-in-fact requirement requires a plaintiff to show that he or she suffered "an invasion of a legally protected interest" that is "concrete and particularized" and "actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical." Lujan, supra, at 560. Pp. 7-11.          (1) The Ninth Circuit's injury-in-fact analysis elided the independent "concreteness" requirement. Both observations it made concerned only "particularization," i.e., the requirement that an injury "affect the plaintiff in a personal and individual way," Lujan, supra, at 560, n. 1, but an injury in fact must be both concrete and particularized, see, e.g., Susan B. Anthony List v. Driehaus, 573 U. S. ___, ___. Concreteness is quite different from particularization and requires an injury to be "de facto," that is, to actually exist. Pp. 7-8.          (2) The Ninth Circuit also failed to address whether the alleged procedural violations entail a degree of risk sufficient to meet the concreteness requirement. A "concrete" injury need not be a "tangible" injury. See, e.g., Pleasant Grove City v. Summum, 555 U. S. 460. To determine whether an intangible harm constitutes injury in fact, both history and the judgment of Congress are instructive. Congress is well positioned to identify intangible harms that meet minimum Article III requirements, but a plaintiff does not automatically satisfy the injury-in-fact requirement whenever a statute grants a right and purports to authorize a suit to vindicate it. Article III standing requires a concrete injury even in the context of a statutory violation. This does not mean, however, that the risk of real harm cannot satisfy that requirement. See, e.g., Clapper v. Amnesty Int'l USA, 568 U. S. ____. The violation of a procedural right granted by statute can be sufficient in some circumstances to constitute injury in fact; in such a case, a plaintiff need not allege any additional harm beyond the one identified by Congress, see Federal Election Comm'n v. Akins, 524 U. S. 11, 20-25. This Court takes no position on the correctness of the Ninth Circuit's ultimate conclusion, but these general principles demonstrate two things: that Congress plainly sought to curb the dissemination of false information by adopting procedures designed to decrease that risk and that Robins cannot satisfy the demands of Article III by alleging a bare procedural violation. Pp. 8-11.742 F. 3d 409, vacated and remanded.     Alito, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Kennedy, Thomas, Breyer, and Kagan, JJ., joined. Thomas, J., filed a concurring opinion. Ginsburg, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Sotomayor, J., joined.Opinion of the Court?578 U. S. ____ (2016)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 13-1339SPOKEO, INC., PETITIONER v. THOMAS ROBINSon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[May 16, 2016]     Justice Alito delivered the opinion of the Court.     This case presents the question whether respondent Robins has standing to maintain an action in federal court against petitioner Spokeo under the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970 (FCRA or Act), 84 Stat. 1127, as amended, 15 U. S. C. §1681 et seq.     Spokeo operates a "people search engine." If an individual visits Spokeo's Web site and inputs a person's name, a phone number, or an e-mail address, Spokeo conducts a computerized search in a wide variety of databases and provides information about the subject of the search. Spokeo performed such a search for information about Robins, and some of the information it gathered and then disseminated was incorrect. When Robins learned of these inaccuracies, he filed a complaint on his own behalf and on behalf of a class of similarly situated individuals.     The District Court dismissed Robins' complaint for lack of standing, but a panel of the Ninth Circuit reversed. The Ninth Circuit noted, first, that Robins had alleged that "Spokeo violated his statutory rights, not just the statutory rights of other people," and, second, that "Robins's personal interests in the handling of his credit information are individualized rather than collective." 742 F. 3d 409, 413 (2014). Based on these two observations, the Ninth Circuit held that Robins had adequately alleged injury in fact, a requirement for standing under Article III of the Constitution. Id., at 413-414.     This analysis was incomplete. As we have explained in our prior opinions, the injury-in-fact requirement requires a plaintiff to allege an injury that is both "concrete and particularized." Friends of the Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC), Inc., 528 U. S. 167, 180-181 (2000) (emphasis added). The Ninth Circuit's analysis focused on the second characteristic (particularity), but it overlooked the first (concreteness). We therefore vacate the decision below and remand for the Ninth Circuit to consider both aspects of the injury-in-fact requirement.I     The FCRA seeks to ensure "fair and accurate credit reporting." §1681(a)(1). To achieve this end, the Act regulates the creation and the use of "consumer report[s]"1 by "consumer reporting agenc[ies]"2 for certain specified purposes, including credit transactions, insurance, licensing, consumer-initiated business transactions, and employment. See §§1681a(d)(1)(A)-(C); §1681b. Enacted long before the advent of the Internet, the FCRA applies to companies that regularly disseminate information bearing on an individual's "credit worthiness, credit standing, credit capacity, character, general reputation, personal characteristics, or mode of living." §1681a(d)(1).     The FCRA imposes a host of requirements concerning the creation and use of consumer reports. As relevant here, the Act requires consumer reporting agencies to "follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of" consumer reports, §1681e(b); to notify providers and users of consumer information of their responsibilities under the Act, §1681e(d); to limit the circumstances in which such agencies provide consumer reports "for employment purposes," §1681b(b)(1); and to post toll-free numbers for consumers to request reports, §1681j(a).     The Act also provides that "[a]ny person who willfully fails to comply with any requirement [of the Act] with respect to any [individual3] is liable to that [individual]" for, among other things, either "actual damages" or statutory damages of $100 to $1,000 per violation, costs of the action and attorney's fees, and possibly punitive damages. §1681n(a).     Spokeo is alleged to qualify as a "consumer reporting agency" under the FCRA.4 It operates a Web site that allows users to search for information about other individuals by name, e-mail address, or phone number. In response to an inquiry submitted online, Spokeo searches a wide spectrum of databases and gathers and provides information such as the individual's address, phone number, marital status, approximate age, occupation, hobbies, finances, shopping habits, and musical preferences. App. 7, 10-11. According to Robins, Spokeo markets its services to a variety of users, including not only "employers who want to evaluate prospective employees," but also "those who want to investigate prospective romantic partners or seek other personal information." Brief for Respondent 7. Persons wishing to perform a Spokeo search need not disclose their identities, and much information is available for free.     At some point in time, someone (Robins' complaint does not specify who) made a Spokeo search request for information about Robins, and Spokeo trawled its sources and generated a profile. By some means not detailed in Robins' complaint, he became aware of the contents of that profile and discovered that it contained inaccurate information. His profile, he asserts, states that he is married, has children, is in his 50's, has a job, is relatively affluent, and holds a graduate degree. App. 14. According to Robins' complaint, all of this information is incorrect.     Robins filed a class-action complaint in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, claiming, among other things, that Spokeo willfully failed to comply with the FCRA requirements enumerated above.     The District Court initially denied Spokeo's motion to dismiss the complaint for lack of jurisdiction, but later reconsidered and dismissed the complaint with prejudice. App. to Pet. for Cert. 23a. The court found that Robins had not "properly pled" an injury in fact, as required by Article III. Ibid.     The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed. Relying on Circuit precedent,5 the court began by stating that "the violation of a statutory right is usually a sufficient injury in fact to confer standing." 742 F. 3d, at 412. The court recognized that "the Constitution limits the power of Congress to confer standing." Id., at 413. But the court held that those limits were honored in this case because Robins alleged that "Spokeo violated his statutory rights, not just the statutory rights of other people," and because his "personal interests in the handling of his credit information are individualized rather than collective." Ibid. (emphasis in original). The court thus concluded that Robins' "alleged violations of [his] statutory rights [were] sufficient to satisfy the injury-in-fact requirement of Article III." Id., at 413-414.     We granted certiorari. 575 U. S. ___ (2015).IIA     The Constitution confers limited authority on each branch of the Federal Government. It vests Congress with enumerated "legislative Powers," Art. I, §1; it confers upon the President "[t]he executive Power," Art. II, §1, cl. 1; and it endows the federal courts with "[t]he judicial Power of the United States," Art. III, §1. In order to remain faithful to this tripartite structure, the power of the Federal Judiciary may not be permitted to intrude upon the powers given to the other branches. See DaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno, 547 U. S. 332, 341 (2006); Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 559-560 (1992).     Although the Constitution does not fully explain what is meant by "[t]he judicial Power of the United States," Art. III, § 1, it does specify that this power extends only to "Cases" and "Controversies," Art. III, §2. And " '[n]o principle is more fundamental to the judiciary's proper role in our system of government than the constitutional limitation of federal-court jurisdiction to actual cases or controversies.' " Raines v. Byrd, 521 U. S. 811, 818 (1997).     Standing to sue is a doctrine rooted in the traditional understanding of a case or controversy. The doctrine developed in our case law to ensure that federal courts do not exceed their authority as it has been traditionally understood. See id., at 820. The doctrine limits the category of litigants empowered to maintain a lawsuit in federal court to seek redress for a legal wrong. See Valley Forge Christian College v. Americans United for Separation of Church and State, Inc., 454 U. S. 464, 473 (1982); Warth v. Seldin, 422 U. S. 490, 498-499 (1975). In this way, "[t]he law of Article III standing . . . serves to prevent the judicial process from being used to usurp the powers of the political branches," Clapper v. Amnesty Int'l USA, 568 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 9); Lujan, supra, at 576-577, and confines the federal courts to a properly judicial role, see Warth, supra, at 498.     Our cases have established that the "irreducible constitutional minimum" of standing consists of three elements. Lujan, 504 U. S., at 560. The plaintiff must have (1) suffered an injury in fact, (2) that is fairly traceable to the challenged conduct of the defendant, and (3) that is likely to be redressed by a favorable judicial decision. Id., at 560-561; Friends of the Earth, Inc., 528 U. S., at 180-181. The plaintiff, as the party invoking federal jurisdiction, bears the burden of establishing these elements. FW/PBS, Inc. v. Dallas, 493 U. S. 215, 231 (1990). Where, as here, a case is at the pleading stage, the plaintiff must "clearly . . . allege facts demonstrating" each element. Warth, supra, at 518.6B     This case primarily concerns injury in fact, the "[f ]irst and foremost" of standing's three elements. Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment, 523 U. S. 83, 103 (1998). Injury in fact is a constitutional requirement, and "[i]t is settled that Congress cannot erase Article III's standing requirements by statutorily granting the right to sue to a plaintiff who would not otherwise have standing." Raines, supra, at 820, n. 3; see Summers v. Earth Island Institute, 555 U. S. 488, 497 (2009); Gladstone, Realtors v. Village of Bellwood, 441 U. S. 91, 100 (1979) ("In no event . . . may Congress abrogate the Art. III minima").     To establish injury in fact, a plaintiff must show that he or she suffered "an invasion of a legally protected interest" that is "concrete and particularized" and "actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical." Lujan, 504 U. S., at 560 (internal quotation marks omitted). We discuss the particularization and concreteness requirements below.1     For an injury to be "particularized," it "must affect the plaintiff in a personal and individual way." Ibid., n. 1; see also, e.g., Cuno, supra, at 342 (" 'plaintiff must allege personal injury' "); Whitmore v. Arkansas, 495 U. S. 149, 155 (1990) (" 'distinct' "); Allen v. Wright, 468 U. S. 737, 751 (1984) ("personal"); Valley Forge, supra, at 472 (standing requires that the plaintiff " 'personally has suffered some actual or threatened injury' "); United States v. Richardson, 418 U. S. 166, 177 (1974) (not "undifferentiated"); Public Citizen, Inc. v. National Hwy. Traffic Safety Admin., 489 F. 3d 1279, 1292-1293 (CADC 2007) (collecting cases).7     Particularization is necessary to establish injury in fact, but it is not sufficient. An injury in fact must also be "concrete." Under the Ninth Circuit's analysis, however, that independent requirement was elided. As previously noted, the Ninth Circuit concluded that Robins' complaint alleges "concrete, de facto" injuries for essentially two reasons. 742 F. 3d, at 413. First, the court noted that Robins "alleges that Spokeo violated his statutory rights, not just the statutory rights of other people." Ibid. Second, the court wrote that "Robins's personal interests in the handling of his credit information are individualized rather than collective." Ibid. (emphasis added). Both of these observations concern particularization, not concreteness. We have made it clear time and time again that an injury in fact must be both concrete and particularized. See, e.g., Susan B. Anthony List v. Driehaus, 573 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 8); Summers, supra, at 493; Sprint Communications Co. v. APCC Services, Inc., 554 U. S. 269, 274 (2008); Massachusetts v. EPA, 549 U. S. 497, 517 (2007).     A "concrete" injury must be "de facto"; that is, it must actually exist. See Black's Law Dictionary 479 (9th ed. 2009). When we have used the adjective "concrete," we have meant to convey the usual meaning of the term--"real," and not "abstract." Webster's Third New International Dictionary 472 (1971); Random House Dictionary of the English Language 305 (1967). Concreteness, therefore, is quite different from particularization.2     "Concrete" is not, however, necessarily synonymous with "tangible." Although tangible injuries are perhaps easier to recognize, we have confirmed in many of our previous cases that intangible injuries can nevertheless be concrete. See, e.g., Pleasant Grove City v. Summum, 555 U. S. 460 (2009) (free speech); Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah, 508 U. S. 520 (1993) (free exercise).     In determining whether an intangible harm constitutes injury in fact, both history and the judgment of Congress play important roles. Because the doctrine of standing derives from the case-or-controversy requirement, and because that requirement in turn is grounded in historical practice, it is instructive to consider whether an alleged intangible harm has a close relationship to a harm that has traditionally been regarded as providing a basis for a lawsuit in English or American courts. See Vermont Agency of Natural Resources v. United States ex rel. Stevens, 529 U. S. 765, 775-777 (2000). In addition, because Congress is well positioned to identify intangible harms that meet minimum Article III requirements, its judgment is also instructive and important. Thus, we said in Lujan that Congress may "elevat[e] to the status of legally cognizable injuries concrete, de facto injuries that were previously inadequate in law." 504 U. S., at 578. Similarly, Justice Kennedy's concurrence in that case explained that "Congress has the power to define injuries and articulate chains of causation that will give rise to a case or controversy where none existed before." Id., at 580 (opinion concurring in part and concurring in judgment).     Congress' role in identifying and elevating intangible harms does not mean that a plaintiff automatically satisfies the injury-in-fact requirement whenever a statute grants a person a statutory right and purports to authorize that person to sue to vindicate that right. Article III standing requires a concrete injury even in the context of a statutory violation. For that reason, Robins could not, for example, allege a bare procedural violation, divorced from any concrete harm, and satisfy the injury-in-fact requirement of Article III. See Summers, 555 U. S., at 496 ("[D]eprivation of a procedural right without some concrete interest that is affected by the deprivation . . . is insufficient to create Article III standing"); see also Lujan, supra, at 572.     This does not mean, however, that the risk of real harm cannot satisfy the requirement of concreteness. See, e.g., Clapper v. Amnesty Int'l USA, 568 U. S. ____. For example, the law has long permitted recovery by certain tort victims even if their harms may be difficult to prove or measure. See, e.g., Restatement (First) of Torts §§569 (libel), 570 (slander per se) (1938). Just as the common law permitted suit in such instances, the violation of a procedural right granted by statute can be sufficient in some circumstances to constitute injury in fact. In other words, a plaintiff in such a case need not allege any additional harm beyond the one Congress has identified. See Federal Election Comm'n v. Akins, 524 U. S. 11, 20-25 (1998) (confirming that a group of voters' "inability to obtain information" that Congress had decided to make public is a sufficient injury in fact to satisfy Article III); Public Citizen v. Department of Justice, 491 U. S. 440, 449 (1989) (holding that two advocacy organizations' failure to obtain information subject to disclosure under the Federal Advisory Committee Act "constitutes a sufficiently distinct injury to provide standing to sue").     In the context of this particular case, these general principles tell us two things: On the one hand, Congress plainly sought to curb the dissemination of false information by adopting procedures designed to decrease that risk. On the other hand, Robins cannot satisfy the demands of Article III by alleging a bare procedural violation. A violation of one of the FCRA's procedural requirements may result in no harm. For example, even if a consumer reporting agency fails to provide the required notice to a user of the agency's consumer information, that information regardless may be entirely accurate. In addition, not all inaccuracies cause harm or present any material risk of harm. An example that comes readily to mind is an incorrect zip code. It is difficult to imagine how the dissemination of an incorrect zip code, without more, could work any concrete harm.8     Because the Ninth Circuit failed to fully appreciate the distinction between concreteness and particularization, its standing analysis was incomplete. It did not address the question framed by our discussion, namely, whether the particular procedural violations alleged in this case entail a degree of risk sufficient to meet the concreteness requirement. We take no position as to whether the Ninth Circuit's ultimate conclusion--that Robins adequately alleged an injury in fact--was correct.*??*??*     The judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated, and the case is remanded for proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.Thomas, J., concurring?578 U. S. ____ (2016)No. 13-1339SPOKEO, INC., PETITIONER v. THOMAS ROBINSon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[May 16, 2016]     Justice Thomas, concurring.     The Court vacates and remands to have the Court of Appeals determine "whether the particular procedural violations alleged in this case entail a degree of risk sufficient to meet the concreteness requirement." Ante, at 11. In defining what constitutes a concrete injury, the Court explains that "concrete" means " 'real,' " and "not 'abstract,' " but is not "necessarily synonymous with 'tangible.' " Ante, at 8-9.     I join the Court's opinion. I write separately to explain how, in my view, the injury-in-fact requirement applies to different types of rights. The judicial power of common-law courts was historically limited depending on the nature of the plaintiff's suit. Common-law courts more readily entertained suits from private plaintiffs who alleged a violation of their own rights, in contrast to private plaintiffs who asserted claims vindicating public rights. Those limitations persist in modern standing doctrine.IA     Standing doctrine limits the "judicial power" to " 'cases and controversies of the sort traditionally amenable to, and resolved by, the judicial process.' " Vermont Agency of Natural Resources v. United States ex rel. Stevens, 529 U. S. 765, 774 (2000) (quoting Steel Co. v. Citizens for a Better Environment, 523 U. S. 83, 102 (1998)). To understand the limits that standing imposes on "the judicial Power," therefore, we must "refer directly to the traditional, fundamental limitations upon the powers of commonlaw courts." Honig v. Doe, 484 U. S. 305, 340 (1988) (Scalia, J., dissenting). These limitations preserve separation of powers by preventing the judiciary's entanglement in disputes that are primarily political in nature. This concern is generally absent when a private plaintiff seeks to enforce only his personal rights against another private party.     Common-law courts imposed different limitations on a plaintiff's right to bring suit depending on the type of right the plaintiff sought to vindicate. Historically, common-law courts possessed broad power to adjudicate suits involving the alleged violation of private rights, even when plaintiffs alleged only the violation of those rights and nothing more. "Private rights" are rights "belonging to individuals, considered as individuals." 3 W. Blackstone, Commentaries *2 (hereinafter Blackstone). "Private rights" have traditionally included rights of personal security (including security of reputation), property rights, and contract rights. See 1 id., at *130-*139; Woolhander & Nelson, Does History Defeat Standing Doctrine?, 102 Mich. L. Rev. 689, 693 (2004). In a suit for the violation of a private right, courts historically presumed that the plaintiff suffered a de facto injury merely from having his personal, legal rights invaded. Thus, when one man placed his foot on another's property, the property owner needed to show nothing more to establish a traditional case or controversy. See Entick v. Carrington, 2 Wils. K. B. 275, 291, 95 Eng. Rep. 807, 817 (1765). Many traditional remedies for private-rights causes of action--such as for trespass, infringement of intellectual property, and unjust enrichment--are not contingent on a plaintiff's allegation of damages beyond the violation of his private legal right. See Brief for Restitution and Remedies Scholars as Amici Curiae 6-18; see also Webb v. Portland Mfg. Co., 29 F. Cas. 506, 508 (No. 17,322) (Me. 1838) (stating that a legal injury "imports damage in the nature of it" (internal quotation marks omitted)).     Common-law courts, however, have required a further showing of injury for violations of "public rights"--rights that involve duties owed "to the whole community, considered as a community, in its social aggregate capacity." 4 Blackstone *5. Such rights include "free navigation of waterways, passage on public highways, and general compliance with regulatory law." Woolhander & Nelson, 102 Mich. L. Rev., at 693. Generally, only the government had the authority to vindicate a harm borne by the public at large, such as the violation of the criminal laws. See id., at 695-700. Even in limited cases where private plaintiffs could bring a claim for the violation of public rights, they had to allege that the violation caused them "some extraordinary damage, beyond the rest of the [community]." 3 Blackstone *220 (discussing nuisance); see also Commonwealth v. Webb, 27 Va. 726, 729 (Gen. Ct. 1828).1 An action to redress a public nuisance, for example, was historically considered an action to vindicate the violation of a public right at common law, lest "every subject in the kingdom" be able to "harass the offender with separate actions." 3 Blackstone *219; see also 4 id., at *167 (same). But if the plaintiff could allege "special damage" as the result of a nuisance, the suit could proceed. The existence of special, individualized damage had the effect of creating a private action for compensatory relief to an otherwise public-rights claim. See 3 id., at *220. Similarly, a plaintiff had to allege individual damage in disputes over the use of public lands. E.g., Robert Marys's Case, 9 Co. Rep. 111b, 112b, 77 Eng. Rep. 895, 898-899 (K. B. 1613) (commoner must establish not only injuria [legal injury] but also damnum [damage] to challenge another's overgrazing on the commons).B     These differences between legal claims brought by private plaintiffs for the violation of public and private rights underlie modern standing doctrine and explain the Court's description of the injury-in-fact requirement. "Injury in fact" is the first of three "irreducible" requirements for Article III standing. Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 560 (1992). The injury-in-fact requirement often stymies a private plaintiff's attempt to vindicate the infringement of public rights. The Court has said time and again that, when a plaintiff seeks to vindicate a public right, the plaintiff must allege that he has suffered a "concrete" injury particular to himself. See Schlesinger v. Reservists Comm. to Stop the War, 418 U. S. 208, 221-223 (1974) (explaining this where plaintiffs sought to enforce the Incompatibility Clause, Art. I, §6, cl. 2, against Members of Congress holding reserve commissions in the Armed Forces); see also Lujan, supra, at 572-573 (evaluating standing where plaintiffs sought to enforce the Endangered Species Act); Friends of the Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC), Inc., 528 U. S. 167, 183-184 (2000) (Clean Water Act). This requirement applies with special force when a plaintiff files suit to require an executive agency to "follow the law"; at that point, the citizen must prove that he "has sustained or is immediately in danger of sustaining a direct injury as a result of that [challenged] action and it is not sufficient that he has merely a general interest common to all members of the public." Ex parte Levitt, 302 U. S. 633, 634 (1937) ( per curiam). Thus, in a case where private plaintiffs sought to compel the U. S. Forest Service to follow certain procedures when it regulated "small fire-rehabilitation and timber-salvage projects," we held that "deprivation of a procedural right without some concrete interest that is affected by the deprivation . . . is insufficient to create Article III standing," even if "accorded by Congress." Summers v. Earth Island Institute, 555 U. S. 488, 490, 496-497 (2009).     But the concrete-harm requirement does not apply as rigorously when a private plaintiff seeks to vindicate his own private rights. Our contemporary decisions have not required a plaintiff to assert an actual injury beyond the violation of his personal legal rights to satisfy the "injury-in-fact" requirement. See, e.g., Carey v. Piphus, 435 U. S. 247, 266 (1978) (holding that nominal damages are appropriate when a plaintiff's constitutional rights have been infringed but he cannot show further injury).     The separation-of-powers concerns underlying our public-rights decisions are not implicated when private individuals sue to redress violations of their own private rights. But, when they are implicated, standing doctrine keeps courts out of political disputes by denying private litigants the right to test the abstract legality of government action. See Schlesinger, supra, at 222. And by limiting Congress' ability to delegate law enforcement authority to private plaintiffs and the courts, standing doctrine preserves executive discretion. See Lujan, supra, at 577 (" 'To permit Congress to convert the undifferentiated public interest in executive officers' compliance with the law into an 'individual right' vindicable in the courts is to permit Congress to transfer from the President to the courts the Chief Executive's most important constitutional duty, to 'take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed' "). But where one private party has alleged that another private party violated his private rights, there is generally no danger that the private party's suit is an impermissible attempt to police the activity of the political branches or, more broadly, that the legislative branch has impermissibly delegated law enforcement authority from the executive to a private individual. See Hessick, Standing, Injury in Fact, and Private Rights, 93 Cornell L. Rev. 275, 317-321 (2008).C     When Congress creates new private causes of action to vindicate private or public rights, these Article III principles circumscribe federal courts' power to adjudicate a suit alleging the violation of those new legal rights. Congress can create new private rights and authorize private plaintiffs to sue based simply on the violation of those private rights. See Warth v. Seldin, 422 U. S. 490, 500 (1975). A plaintiff seeking to vindicate a statutorily created private right need not allege actual harm beyond the invasion of that private right. See Havens Realty Corp. v. Coleman, 455 U. S. 363, 373-374 (1982) (recognizing standing for a violation of the Fair Housing Act); Tennessee Elec. Power Co. v. TVA, 306 U. S. 118, 137-138 (1939) (recognizing that standing can exist where "the right invaded is a legal right,--one of property, one arising out of contract, one protected against tortious invasion, or one founded on a statute which confers a privilege"). A plaintiff seeking to vindicate a public right embodied in a federal statute, however, must demonstrate that the violation of that public right has caused him a concrete, individual harm distinct from the general population. See Lujan, supra, at 578 (noting that, whatever the scope of Congress' power to create new legal rights, "it is clear that in suits against the Government, at least, the concrete injury requirement must remain"). Thus, Congress cannot authorize private plaintiffs to enforce public rights in their own names, absent some showing that the plaintiff has suffered a concrete harm particular to him.II     Given these principles, I agree with the Court's decision to vacate and remand. The Fair Credit Reporting Act creates a series of regulatory duties. Robins has no standing to sue Spokeo, in his own name, for violations of the duties that Spokeo owes to the public collectively, absent some showing that he has suffered concrete and particular harm. See supra, at 4-5. These consumer protection requirements include, for example, the requirement to "post a toll-free telephone number on [Spokeo's] website through which consumers can request free annual file disclosures." App. 23, First Amended Complaint ¶74; see 15 U. S. C. §1681j; 16 CFR §610.3(a)(1) (2010).     But a remand is required because one claim in Robins' complaint rests on a statutory provision that could arguably establish a private cause of action to vindicate the violation of a privately held right. Section 1681e(b) requires Robins to "follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of the information concerning the individual about whom the report relates." §1681e(b) (emphasis added). If Congress has created a private duty owed personally to Robins to protect his information, then the violation of the legal duty suffices for Article III injury in fact. If that provision, however, vests any and all consumers with the power to police the "reasonable procedures" of Spokeo, without more, then Robins has no standing to sue for its violation absent an allegation that he has suffered individualized harm. On remand, the Court of Appeals can consider the nature of this claim.Ginsburg, J., dissenting?578 U. S. ____ (2016)No. 13-1339SPOKEO, INC., PETITIONER v. THOMAS ROBINSon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[May 16, 2016]     Justice Ginsburg, with whom Justice Sotomayor joins, dissenting.     In the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970 (FCRA or Act), 15 U. S. C. §1681 et seq., Congress required consumer reporting agencies, whenever preparing a consumer report, to "follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of the information concerning the individual about whom the report relates." §1681e(b). To promote adherence to the Act's procedural requirements, Congress granted adversely affected consumers a right to sue noncomplying reporting agencies. §1681n (willful noncompliance); §1681o (negligent noncompliance).1 Thomas Robins instituted suit against Spokeo, Inc., alleging that Spokeo was a reporting agency governed by the FCRA, and that Spokeo maintains on its Web site an inaccurate consumer report about Robins. App. 13.     In particular, Robins alleged that Spokeo posted "a picture . . . purport[ing] to be an image of Robins [that] was not in fact [of him]," and incorrectly reported that Robins "was in his 50s, . . . married, . . . employed in a professional or technical field, and . . . has children." Id., at 14. Robins further alleged that Spokeo's profile of him continues to misrepresent "that he has a graduate degree, that his economic health is 'Very Strong[,]' and that his wealth level [is in] the 'Top 10%.' " Ibid. Spokeo displayed that erroneous information, Robins asserts, when he was "out of work" and "actively seeking employment." Ibid. Because of the misinformation, Robins stated, he encountered "[imminent and ongoing] actual harm to [his] employment prospects." Ibid.2 As Robins elaborated on brief, Spokeo's report made him appear overqualified for jobs he might have gained, expectant of a higher salary than employers would be willing to pay, and less mobile because of family responsibilities. See Brief for Respondent 44.     I agree with much of the Court's opinion. Robins, the Court holds, meets the particularity requirement for standing under Article III. See ante, at 8, 11 (remanding only for concreteness inquiry). The Court acknowledges that Congress has the authority to confer rights and delineate claims for relief where none existed before. Ante, at 9; see Federal Election Comm'n v. Akins, 524 U. S. 11, 19-20 (1998) (holding that inability to procure information to which Congress has created a right in the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 qualifies as concrete injury satisfying Article III's standing requirement); Public Citizen v. Department of Justice, 491 U. S. 440, 449 (1989) (holding that plaintiff advocacy organizations' inability to obtain information that Congress made subject to disclosure under the Federal Advisory Committee Act "constitutes a sufficiently distinct injury to provide standing to sue"); Havens Realty Corp. v. Coleman, 455 U. S. 363, 373 (1982) (identifying, as Article III injury, violation of plaintiff's right, secured by the Fair Housing Act, to "truthful information concerning the availability of housing").3 Congress' connection of procedural requirements to the prevention of a substantive harm, the Court appears to agree, is "instructive and important." Ante, at 9; see Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 580 (1992) (Kennedy, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) ("As Government programs and policies become more complex and far reaching, we must be sensitive to the articulation of new rights of action . . . ."); Brief for Restitution and Remedies Scholars et al. as Amici Curiae 3 ("Congress cannot authorize individual plaintiffs to enforce generalized rights that belong to the whole public. But Congress can create new individual rights, and it can enact effective remedies for those rights."). See generally Sunstein, Informational Regulation and Informational Standing: Akins and Beyond, 147 U. Pa. L. Rev. 613 (1999).     I part ways with the Court, however, on the necessity of a remand to determine whether Robins' particularized injury was "concrete." See ante, at 11. Judged by what we have said about "concreteness," Robins' allegations carry him across the threshold. The Court's opinion observes that time and again, our decisions have coupled the words "concrete and particularized." Ante, at 8 (citing as examples, Susan B. Anthony List v. Driehaus, 573 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 8); Summers v. Earth Island Institute, 555 U. S. 488, 493 (2009); Sprint Communications Co. v. APCC Services, Inc., 554 U. S. 269, 274 (2008); Massachusetts v. EPA, 549 U. S. 497, 517 (2007)). True, but true too, in the four cases cited by the Court, and many others, opinions do not discuss the separate offices of the terms "concrete" and "particularized."     Inspection of the Court's decisions suggests that the particularity requirement bars complaints raising generalized grievances, seeking relief that no more benefits the plaintiff than it does the public at large. See, e.g., Lujan, 504 U. S., at 573-574 (a plaintiff "seeking relief that no more directly and tangibly benefits him than it does the public at large does not state an Article III case or controversy" (punctuation omitted)); Perkins v. Lukens Steel Co., 310 U. S. 113, 125 (1940) (plaintiffs lack standing because they failed to show injury to "a particular right of their own, as distinguished from the public's interest in the administration of the law"). Robins' claim does not present a question of that character. He seeks redress, not for harm to the citizenry, but for Spokeo's spread of misinformation specifically about him.     Concreteness as a discrete requirement for standing, the Court's decisions indicate, refers to the reality of an injury, harm that is real, not abstract, but not necessarily tangible. See ante, at 8-9; ante, at 1 (Thomas, J., concurring). Illustrative opinions include Akins, 524 U. S., at 20 ("[C]ourts will not pass upon abstract, intellectual problems, but adjudicate concrete, living contests between adversaries." (internal quotation marks and alterations omitted)); Diamond v. Charles, 476 U. S. 54, 67 (1986) (plaintiff's "abstract concern does not substitute for the concrete injury required by Art[icle] III" (internal quotation marks and ellipsis omitted)); Los Angeles v. Lyons, 461 U. S. 95, 101 (1983) ("Plaintiffs must demonstrate a personal stake in the outcome . . . . Abstract injury is not enough." (internal quotation marks omitted)); Babbitt v. Farm Workers, 442 U. S. 289, 297-298 (1979) ("The difference between an abstract question and a 'case or controversy' is one of degree, of course, and is not discernable by any precise test. The basic inquiry is whether the conflicting contentions of the parties present a real, substantial controversy between parties having adverse legal interests, a dispute definite and concrete, not hypothetical or abstract." (citation, some internal quotation marks, and ellipsis omitted)); Simon v. Eastern Ky. Welfare Rights Organization, 426 U. S. 26, 40 (1976) ("organization's abstract concern . . . does not substitute for the concrete injury required by Art. III"); California Bankers Assn. v. Shultz, 416 U. S. 21, 69 (1974) ("There must be . . . concrete adverseness"; "[a]bstract injury is not enough." (internal quotation marks omitted)); Railway Mail Assn. v. Corsi, 326 U. S. 88, 93 (1945) (controversy must be "definite and concrete, not hypothetical or abstract"); Coleman v. Miller, 307 U. S. 433, 460 (1939) (opinion of Frankfurter, J.) ("[I]t [is] not for courts to pass upon . . . abstract, intellectual problems but only . . . concrete, living contest[s] between adversaries call[ing] for the arbitrament of law.").     Robins would not qualify, the Court observes, if he alleged a "bare" procedural violation, ante, at 10, one that results in no harm, for example, "an incorrect zip code," ante, at 11. Far from an incorrect zip code, Robins complains of misinformation about his education, family situation, and economic status, inaccurate representations that could affect his fortune in the job market. See Brief for Center for Democracy & Technology et al. as Amici Curiae 13 (Spokeo's inaccuracies bore on Robins' "ability to find employment by creating the erroneous impression that he was overqualified for the work he was seeking, that he might be unwilling to relocate for a job due to family commitments, or that his salary demands would exceed what prospective employers were prepared to offer him."); Brief for Restitution and Remedies Scholars et al. as Amici Curiae 35 ("An applicant can lose [a] job for being over-qualified; a suitor can lose a woman if she reads that he is married."). The FCRA's procedural requirements aimed to prevent such harm. See 115 Cong. Rec. 2410-2415 (1969). I therefore see no utility in returning this case to the Ninth Circuit to underscore what Robins' complaint already conveys concretely: Spokeo's misinformation "cause[s] actual harm to [his] employment prospects." App. 14.*??*??*     For the reasons stated, I would affirm the Ninth Circuit's judgment.FOOTNOTESThe Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (BAPCPA) amended the Bankruptcy Code to define a class of bankruptcy professionals termed "debt relief agenc[ies]." 11 U. S. C. §101(12A). That class includes, with limited exceptions, "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person ... for ... payment ... , or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." Ibid. The BAPCPA prohibits such professionals from "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt in contemplation of [filing for bankruptcy] ... ." §526(a)(4). It also requires them to disclose in their advertisements for certain services that the services are with respect to or may involve bankruptcy relief, §§528(a)(3), (b)(2)(A), and to identify themselves as debt relief agencies, §§528(a)(4), (b)(2)(B).          The plaintiffs in this litigation--a law firm and others (collectively Milavetz)--filed a preenforcement suit seeking declaratory relief, arguing that Milavetz is not bound by the BAPCPA's debt-relief-agency provisions and therefore can freely advise clients to incur additional debt and need not make the requisite disclosures in its advertisements. The District Court found that "debt relief agency" does not include attorneys and that §§526 and 528 are unconstitutional as applied to that class of professionals. The Eighth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part, rejecting the District Court's conclusion that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]"; upholding application of §528's disclosure requirements to attorneys; and finding §526(a)(4) unconstitutional because it broadly prohibits debt relief agencies from advising assisted persons to incur any additional debt in contemplation of bankruptcy even when the advice constitutes prudent prebankruptcy planning.Held:     1. Attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are debt relief agencies under the BAPCPA. By definition, "bankruptcy assistance" includes several services commonly performed by attorneys, e.g., providing "advice, counsel, [or] document preparation," §101(4A). Moreover, in enumerating specific exceptions to the debt-relief-agency definition, Congress indicated no intent to exclude attorneys. See §§101(12A)(A)-(E). Milavetz relies on the fact that §101(12A) does not expressly include attorneys in advocating a narrower understanding. On that reading, only a bankruptcy petition preparer would qualify--an implausibility given that a "debt relief agency" is "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance ... or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer," ibid. Milavetz's other arguments for excluding attorneys are also unpersuasive. Pp. 5-9.     2. Section 526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising a debtor to incur more debt because the debtor is filing for bankruptcy, rather than for a valid purpose. The statute's language, together with its purpose, makes a narrow reading of §526(a)(4) the natural one. Conrad, Rubin & Lesser v. Pender, 289 U. S. 472, supports this conclusion. The Court in that case read now-repealed §96(d), which authorized reexamination of a debtor's attorney's fees payment "in contemplation of the filing of a petition," to require that the portended bankruptcy have "induce[d]" the transfer at issue, id., at 477, understanding inducement to engender suspicion of abuse. The Court identified the "controlling question" as "whether the thought of bankruptcy was the impelling cause of the transaction," ibid. Given the substantial similarities between §§96(d) and 526(a)(4), the controlling question under the latter is likewise whether the impelling reason for "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt" was the prospect of filing for bankruptcy. In practice, advice impelled by the prospect of filing will generally consist of advice to "load up" on debt with the expectation of obtaining its discharge. The statutory context supports the conclusion that §526(a)(4)'s prohibition primarily targets this type of conduct. The Court rejects Milavetz's arguments for a more expansive view of §526(a)(4) and its claim that the provision, narrowly construed, is impermissibly vague. Pp. 9-18.     3. Section 528's disclosure requirements are valid as applied to Milavetz. Consistent with Milavetz's characterization, the Court presumes that this is an as-applied challenge. Because §528 is directed at misleading commercial speech and imposes only a disclosure requirement rather than an affirmative limitation on speech, the less exacting scrutiny set out in Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626, governs. There, the Court found that, while unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements offend the First Amendment, "an advertiser's rights are adequately protected as long as disclosure requirements are reasonably related to the State's interest in preventing deception of consumers." Id., at 651. Section 528's requirements share the essential features of the rule challenged in Zauderer. The disclosures are intended to combat the problem of inherently misleading commercial advertisements, and they entail only an accurate statement of the advertiser's legal status and the character of the assistance provided. Moreover, they do not prevent debt relief agencies from conveying any additional information through their advertisements. In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191, distinguished. Because §528's requirements are "reasonably related" to the Government's interest in preventing consumer deception, the Court upholds those provisions as applied to Milavetz. Pp. 18-23.541 F. 3d 785, affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.     Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Stevens, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, and Alito, JJ., joined, in which Scalia, J., joined except for n. 3, and in which Thomas, J., joined except for Part III-C. Scalia, J., and Thomas, J., filed opinions concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.     Congress enacted the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (BAPCPA or Act) to correct perceived abuses of the bankruptcy system. Among the reform measures the Act implemented are a number of provisions that regulate the conduct of "debt relief agenc[ies]"--i.e., professionals who provide bankruptcy assistance to consumer debtors. See 11 U. S. C. §§101(3), (12A). These consolidated cases present the threshold question whether attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services. Because we agree with the Court of Appeals that they are, we must also consider whether the Act's provisions governing debt relief agencies' advice to clients, §526(a)(4), and requiring them to make certain disclosures in their advertisements, §§528(a) and (b)(2), violate the First Amendment rights of attorneys. Concluding that the Court of Appeals construed §526(a)(4) too expansively, we reverse its judgment that the provision is unconstitutionally overbroad. Like the Court of Appeals, we uphold §528's disclosure requirements as applied in these consolidated cases.I     In order to improve bankruptcy law and practice, Congress enacted through the BAPCPA a number of provisions directed at the conduct of bankruptcy professionals. Some of these measures apply to the broad class of bankruptcy professionals termed "debt relief agenc[ies]." That category includes, with limited exceptions, "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person in return for ... payment ... , or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." §101(12A).1 "Bankruptcy assistance" refers to goods or services "provided to an assisted person with the express or implied purpose of providing information, advice, counsel, document preparation, or filing, or attendance at a creditors' meeting or appearing in a case or proceeding on behalf of another or providing legal representation with respect to a case or proceeding" in bankruptcy. §101(4A). An "assisted person" is someone with limited nonexempt property whose debts consist primarily of consumer debts. §101(3). The BAPCPA subjects debt relief agencies to a number of restrictions and requirements, as set forth in §§526, 527, and 528. As relevant here, §526(a) establishes several rules of professional conduct for persons qualifying as debt relief agencies. Among them, §526(a)(4) states that a debt relief agency shall not "advise an assisted person ... to incur more debt in contemplation of such person filing a case under this title or to pay an attorney or bankruptcy petition preparer fee or charge for services performed as part of preparing for or representing a debtor in a case under this title."     Section 528 requires qualifying professionals to include certain disclosures in their advertisements. Subsection (a) provides that debt relief agencies must "clearly and conspicuously disclose in any advertisement of bankruptcy assistance services or of the benefits of bankruptcy directed to the general public ... that the services or benefits are with respect to bankruptcy relief under this title." §528(a)(3). It also requires them to include the following, "or a substantially similar statement": "We are a debt relief agency. We help people file for bankruptcy relief under the Bankruptcy Code." §528(a)(4). Subsection (b) requires essentially the same disclosures in advertisements "indicating that the debt relief agency provides assistance with respect to credit defaults, mortgage foreclosures, eviction proceedings, excessive debt, debt collection pressure, or inability to pay any consumer debt." §528(b)(2). Debt relief agencies advertising such services must disclose "that the assistance may involve bankruptcy relief," §528(b)(2)(A), and must identify themselves as "debt relief agenc[ies]" as required by §528(a)(4), see §528(b)(2)(B).II     The plaintiffs in this litigation--the law firm Milavetz, Gallop & Milavetz, P. A.; the firm's president, Robert J. Milavetz; a bankruptcy attorney at the firm, Barbara Nilva Nevin; and two of the firm's clients (collectively Milavetz)--filed a preenforcement suit in Federal District Court seeking declaratory relief with respect to the Act's debt-relief-agency provisions. Milavetz asked the court to hold that it is not bound by these provisions and thus may freely advise clients to incur additional debt and need not identify itself as a debt relief agency in its advertisements.     Milavetz first argued that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]" as that term is used in the BAPCPA. In the alternative, Milavetz sought a judgment that §§526(a)(4) and 528(a)(4) and (b)(2) are unconstitutional as applied to attorneys. The District Court agreed with Milavetz that the term "debt relief agency" does not include attorneys, App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 08-1119, p. A-15, but only after finding that §§526 and 528--provisions expressly applicable only to debt relief agencies--are unconstitutional as applied to this class of professionals.     The Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part. 541 F. 3d 785 (2008). Relying on the Act's plain language, the court unanimously rejected the District Court's conclusion that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]" within the meaning of the Act. The Court of Appeals also parted ways with the District Court concerning the constitutionality of §528. Concluding that the disclosures are intended to prevent consumer deception and are "reasonably related" to that interest, the court upheld the application of §528's disclosure requirements to attorneys. Id., at 796-797 (citing Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626, 651 (1985)).     A majority of the Eighth Circuit panel, however, agreed with the District Court that §526(a)(4) is invalid. Determining that §526(a)(4) "broadly prohibits a debt relief agency from advising an assisted person ... to incur any additional debt when the assisted person is contemplating bankruptcy," even when that advice constitutes prudent prebankruptcy planning not intended to abuse the bankruptcy laws, 541 F. 3d, at 793, the majority held that §526(a)(4) could not withstand either strict or intermediate scrutiny. In dissent, Judge Colloton argued that §526(a)(4) should be read narrowly to prevent only advice to abuse the bankruptcy system, noting that this construction would avoid most constitutional difficulties. See id., at 799 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part).     In light of a conflict among the Courts of Appeals,2 we granted certiorari to resolve the question of §526(a)(4)'s scope. 556 U. S. ___ (2009). We also agreed to consider the threshold question whether attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are "debt relief agenc[ies]" within the meaning of §101(12A) and the related question whether §528's disclosure requirements are constitutional.IIIA     We first consider whether the term "debt relief agency" includes attorneys. If it does not, we need not reach the other questions presented, as §§526 and 528 govern only the conduct of debt relief agencies, and Milavetz challenges the validity of those provisions based on their application to attorneys. The Government contends that "debt relief agency" plainly includes attorneys, while Milavetz urges that it does not. We conclude that the Government has the better view.     As already noted, a debt relief agency is "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person" in return for payment. §101(12A). By definition, "bankruptcy assistance" includes several services commonly performed by attorneys. Indeed, some forms of bankruptcy assistance, including the "provi[sion of] legal representation with respect to a case or proceeding," §101(4A), may be provided only by attorneys. See §110(e)(2) (prohibiting bankruptcy petition preparers from providing legal advice). Moreover, in enumerating specific exceptions to the definition of debt relief agency, Congress gave no indication that it intended to exclude attorneys. See §§101(12A)(A)-(E). Thus, as the Government contends, the statutory text clearly indicates that attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services to assisted persons.3     In advocating a narrower understanding of that term, Milavetz relies heavily on the fact that §101(12A) does not expressly include attorneys. That omission stands in contrast, it argues, to the provision's explicit inclusion of "bankruptcy petition preparer[s]"--a category of professionals that excludes attorneys and their staff, see §110(a)(1). But Milavetz does not contend, nor could it credibly, that only professionals expressly included in the definition are debt relief agencies. On that reading, no professional other than a bankruptcy petition preparer would qualify--an implausible reading given that the statute defines "debt relief agency" as "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person ... or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." §101(12A) (emphasis added). The provision's silence regarding attorneys thus avails Milavetz little. Cf. Heintz v. Jenkins, 514 U. S. 291, 294 (1995) (holding that "debt collector" as used in the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, 15 U. S. C. §1692a(6), includes attorneys notwithstanding the definition's lack of an express reference to lawyers or litigation).     Milavetz's other arguments for excluding attorneys similarly fail to persuade us to disregard the statute's plain language. Milavetz contends that 11 U. S. C. §526(d)(2)'s instruction that §§526, 527, and 528 should not "be deemed to limit or curtail" States' authority to "determine and enforce qualifications for the practice of law" counsels against reading "debt relief agency" to include attorneys, as the surest way to protect the States' role in regulating the legal profession is to make the BAPCPA's professional conduct rules inapplicable to lawyers. We find that §526(d)(2) supports the opposite conclusion, as Congress would have had no reason to enact that provision if the debt-relief-agency provisions did not apply to attorneys. Milavetz's broader claim that reading §101(12A) to include attorneys impermissibly trenches on an area of traditional state regulation also lacks merit. Congress and the bankruptcy courts have long overseen aspects of attorney conduct in this area of substantial federal concern. See, e.g., Conrad, Rubin & Lesser v. Pender, 289 U. S. 472, 477-479 (1933) (finding broad authorization in former §96(d) (1934 ed.) (repealed 1978) for courts to examine the reasonableness of a debtor's prepetition attorney's fees).     Milavetz next argues that §101(12A)'s exception for any "officer, director, employee, or agent of a person who provides" bankruptcy assistance is revealing for its failure to include "partners." §101(12A)(A). In light of that omission, it contends, treating attorneys as debt relief agencies will obligate entire law firms to comply with §§526, 527, and 528 based on the conduct of a single partner, while the agents and employees of debt relief agencies not typically organized as partnerships are shielded from those requirements. Given that the partnership structure is not unique to law firms, however, it is unclear why the exclusion would be revealing of Congress' intent only with respect to attorneys. In any event, partnerships are themselves "person[s]" under the BAPCPA, see §101(41), and can qualify as "debt relief agenc[ies]" when they meet the criteria set forth in §101(12A). Moreover, a partnership's employees and agents are exempted from §101(12A) in the same way as the employees and agents of other organizations. To the extent that partners may be subject to the debt-relief-agency provisions by association, that result is consistent with the joint responsibilities that typically flow from the partnership structure, cf. Strang v. Bradner, 114 U. S. 555, 561 (1885). Accordingly, we decline to attribute the significance Milavetz suggests to §101(12A)(A)'s failure to include partners among the exempted actors.4     All else failing, Milavetz urges that the canon of constitutional avoidance requires us to read "debt relief agency" to exclude attorneys in order to forestall serious doubts as to the validity of §§526 and 528. The avoidance canon, however, "is a tool for choosing between competing plausible interpretations of a statutory text." Clark v. Martinez, 543 U. S. 371, 381 (2005). In applying that tool, we will consider only those constructions of a statute that are " 'fairly possible.' " United States v. Security Industrial Bank, 459 U. S. 70, 78 (1982). For the reasons already discussed, the text and statutory context of §101(12A) foreclose a reading of "debt relief agency" that excludes attorneys. Accordingly, we hold that attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are debt relief agencies within the meaning of the BAPCPA.B     Having concluded that attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services, we next address the scope and validity of §526(a)(4). Characterizing the statute as a broad, content-based restriction on attorney-client communications that is not adequately tailored to constrain only speech the Government has a substantial interest in restricting, the Eighth Circuit found the rule substantially overbroad. 541 F. 3d, at 793-794, and n. 10. For the reasons that follow, we reject that conclusion.     Section 526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency from "advis[ing] an assisted person" either "to incur more debt in contemplation of" filing for bankruptcy "or to pay an attorney or bankruptcy petition preparer fee or charge for services" performed in preparation for filing. Only the first of these prohibitions is at issue. In debating the correctness of the Court of Appeals' decision, the parties first dispute the provision's scope. The Court of Appeals concluded that "§526(a)(4) broadly prohibits a debt relief agency from advising an assisted person ... to incur any additional debt when the assisted person is contemplating bankruptcy." Id., at 793. Under that reading, an attorney is prohibited from providing all manner of "beneficial advice--even if the advice could help the assisted person avoid filing for bankruptcy altogether." Ibid.     Agreeing with the Court of Appeals, Milavetz contends that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency from advising a client to incur any new debt while considering whether to file for bankruptcy. Construing the provision more broadly still, Milavetz contends that §526(a)(4) forbids not only affirmative advice but also any discussion of the advantages, disadvantages, or legality of incurring more debt. Like the panel majority's, Milavetz's reading rests primarily on its view that the ordinary meaning of the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy encompasses any advice given to a debtor with the awareness that he might soon file for bankruptcy, even if the advice seeks to obviate the need to file. Milavetz also maintains that if §526(a)(4) were construed more narrowly, as urged by the Government and the dissent below, it would be so vague as to inevitably chill some protected speech.     The Government continues to advocate a narrower construction of the statute, urging that Milavetz's reading is untenable and that its vagueness concerns are misplaced. The Government contends that §526(a)(4)'s restriction on advice to incur more debt "in contemplation of" bankruptcy is most naturally read to forbid only advice to undertake actions to abuse the bankruptcy system. Focusing first on the provision's text, the Government points to sources indicating that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy has long been, and continues to be, associated with abusive conduct. For instance, Black's Law Dictionary 336 (8th ed. 2004) (hereinafter Black's) defines "contemplation of bankruptcy" as "[t]he thought of declaring bankruptcy because of the inability to continue current financial operations, often coupled with action designed to thwart the distribution of assets in a bankruptcy proceeding." Use of the phrase by Members of Congress illustrates that traditional coupling. See, e.g., S. Rep. No. 98-65, p. 9 (1983) (discussing the practice of " 'loading up' [on debt] in contemplation of bankruptcy"); Report of the Commission on the Bankruptcy Laws of the United States, H. R. Doc. No. 93-137, pt. I, p. 11 (1973) ("[T]he most serious abuse of consumer bankruptcy is the number of instances in which individuals have purchased a sizable quantity of goods and services on credit on the eve of bankruptcy in contemplation of obtaining a discharge"). The Government also points to early American and English judicial decisions to corroborate its contention that "in contemplation of" bankruptcy signifies abusive conduct. See, e.g., In re Pearce, 19 F. Cas. 50, 53 (No. 10,873) (D. Vt. 1843); Morgan v. Brundrett, 5 B. Ad. 288, 296-297, 110 Eng. Rep. 798, 801 (K. B. 1833) (Parke, J.).     To bolster its textual claim, the Government relies on §526(a)(4)'s immediate context. According to the Government, the other three subsections of §526(a) are designed to protect debtors from abusive practices by debt relief agencies: §526(a)(1) requires debt relief agencies to perform all promised services; §526(a)(2) prohibits them from making or advising debtors to make false or misleading statements in bankruptcy; and §526(a)(3) prohibits them from misleading debtors regarding the costs or benefits of bankruptcy. When §526(a)(4) is read in context of these debtor-protective provisions, the Government argues, construing it to prevent debt relief agencies from giving advice that is beneficial to both debtors and their creditors seems particularly nonsensical.     Finally, the Government contends that the BAPCPA's remedies for violations of §526(a)(4) similarly corroborate its narrow reading. Section 526(c) provides remedies for a debt relief agency's violation of §526, §527, or §528. Among the actions authorized, a debtor may sue the attorney for remittal of fees, actual damages, and reasonable attorney's fees and costs; a state attorney general may sue for a resident's actual damages; and a court finding intentional abuse may impose an appropriate civil penalty. §526(c). The Government also relies on the Fifth Circuit's decision in Hersh v. United States ex rel. Mukasey, 553 F. 3d 743 (2008), and Judge Colloton's dissent below for the observation that "Congress's emphasis on actual damages for violations of section 526(a)(4) strongly suggests that Congress viewed that section as aimed at advice to debtors which if followed would have a significant risk of harming the debtor." Id., at 760; see 541 F. 3d, at 800 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part). By contrast, "legal and appropriate advice that would be protected by the First Amendment, yet prohibited by a broad reading of §526(a)(4), should cause no damage at all." Ibid.; see Hersh, 541 F. 3d, at 760.     Milavetz contends that the Government's sources actually undermine its claim that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy necessarily refers to abusive conduct. Specifically, Milavetz argues that these authorities illustrate that "in contemplation of" bankruptcy is a neutral phrase that only implies abusive conduct when attached to an additional, proscriptive term. As Black's states, the phrase is "often coupled with action designed to thwart the distribution of assets" in bankruptcy, Black's 336 (emphasis added), but it carries no independent connotation of abuse. In support of that conclusion, Milavetz relies on our decision in Pender, 289 U. S. 472, contending that we construed "in contemplation of" bankruptcy in that case to describe "conduct with a view to a probable bankruptcy filing and nothing more." Brief for Milavetz 61.     After reviewing these competing claims, we are persuaded that a narrower reading of §526(a)(4) is sounder, although we do not adopt precisely the view the Government advocates. The Government's sources show that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy has so commonly been associated with abusive conduct that it may readily be understood to prefigure abuse. As used in §526(a)(4), however, we think the phrase refers to a specific type of misconduct designed to manipulate the protections of the bankruptcy system. In light of our decision in Pender, and in context of other sections of the Code, we conclude that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising a debtor to incur more debt because the debtor is filing for bankruptcy, rather than for a valid purpose.     Pender addressed the meaning of former §96(d), which authorized reexamination of a debtor's payment of attorney's fees "in contemplation of the filing of a petition." Recognizing " 'the temptation of a failing debtor to deal too liberally with his property in enabling counsel to protect him,' " 289 U. S., at 478 (quoting In re Wood & Henderson, 210 U. S. 246, 253 (1908)), we read "in contemplation of ... filing" in that context to require that the portended bankruptcy have "induce[d]" the transfer at issue, 289 U. S., at 477, understanding inducement to engender suspicion of abuse. In so construing the statute, we identified the "controlling question" as "whether the thought of bankruptcy was the impelling cause of the transaction." Ibid. Given the substantial similarities between §§96(d) and 526(a)(4), we think the controlling question under the latter provision is likewise whether the impelling reason for "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt" was the prospect of filing for bankruptcy.     To be sure, there are relevant differences between the provision at issue in Pender and the one now under review. Most notably, the inquiry in Pender was as to payments made on the eve of bankruptcy, whereas §526(a)(4) regards advice to incur additional debts. Consistent with that difference, under §96(d) a finding that a payment was made "in contemplation of" filing resolved only a threshold inquiry triggering further review of the reasonableness of the payment; the finding thus supported an inference of abuse but did not conclusively establish it. By contrast, advice to incur more debt because of bankruptcy, as prohibited by §526(a)(4), will generally consist of advice to "load up" on debt with the expectation of obtaining its discharge--i.e., conduct that is abusive per se.     The statutory context supports the conclusion that §526(a)(4)'s prohibition primarily targets this type of abuse. Code provisions predating the BAPCPA already sought to prevent the practice of loading up on debt prior to filing. Section 523(a)(2), for instance, addressed the attendant risk of manipulation by preventing the discharge of debts obtained by false pretenses and making debts for purchases of luxury goods or services presumptively nondischargeable. See §§523(a)(2)(A) and (C) (2000 ed.). The BAPCPA increased the risk of such abuse, however, by providing a new mechanism for determining a debtor's ability to repay. Pursuant to the "means tes[t]," §707(b)(2)(D) (2006 ed.), a debtor's petition for Chapter 7 relief is presumed abusive (and may therefore be dismissed or converted to a structured repayment plan under Chapter 13) if the debtor's current monthly income exceeds his statutorily allowed expenses, including payments for secured debt, by more than a prescribed amount. See §§707(b)(2)(A)(i)-(iv). The test promotes debtor accountability but also enhances incentives to incur additional debt prior to filing, as payments on secured debts offset a debtor's monthly income under the formula. Other amendments effected by the BAPCPA reflect a concern with this practice. For instance, Congress amended §523(a)(2) to expand the exceptions to discharge by lowering the threshold amount of new debt a debtor must assume to trigger the presumption of abuse under §523(a)(2)(C), and it extended the relevant prefiling window. See §310, 119 Stat. 84. In context, §526(a)(4) is best understood to provide an additional safeguard against the practice of loading up on debt prior to filing.     The Government's contextual arguments provide additional support for the view that §526(a)(4) was meant to prevent this type of conduct. The companion rules of professional conduct in §§526(a)(1)-(3) and the remedies for their violation in §526(c) indicate that Congress was concerned with actions that threaten to harm debtors or creditors. Unlike the reasonable financial advice the Eighth Circuit's broad reading would proscribe, advice to incur more debt because of bankruptcy presents a substantial risk of injury to both debtors and creditors. See Hersh, 553 F. 3d, at 760-761. Specifically, the incurrence of such debt stands to harm a debtor if his prepetition conduct leads a court to hold his debts nondischargable, see §523(a)(2), convert his case to another chapter, or dismiss it altogether, see §707(b), thereby defeating his effort to obtain bankruptcy relief. If a debt, although manipulatively incurred, is not timely identified as abusive and therefore is discharged, creditors will suffer harm as a result of the discharge and the consequent dilution of the bankruptcy estate. By contrast, the prudent advice that the Eighth Circuit's view of the statute forbids would likely benefit both debtors and creditors and at the very least should cause no harm. See id., at 760; 541 F. 3d, at 800 (Colloton, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). For all of these reasons, we conclude that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising an assisted person to incur more debt when the impelling reason for the advice is the anticipation of bankruptcy.     That "[n]o other solution yields as sensible a" result further persuades us of the correctness of this narrow reading. United States v. Granderson, 511 U. S. 39, 55 (1994). It would make scant sense to prevent attorneys and other debt relief agencies from advising individuals thinking of filing for bankruptcy about options that would be beneficial to both those individuals and their creditors. That construction serves none of the purposes of the Bankruptcy Code or the amendments enacted through the BAPCPA. Milavetz itself acknowledges that its expansive view of §526(a)(4) would produce absurd results; that is one of its bases for arguing that "debt relief agency" should be construed to exclude attorneys. Because the language and context of §526(a)(4) evidence a more targeted purpose, we can avoid the absurdity of which Milavetz complains without reaching the result it advocates.     For the same reason, we reject Milavetz's suggestion that §526(a)(4) broadly prohibits debt relief agencies from discussing covered subjects instead of merely proscribing affirmative advice to undertake a particular action. Section 526(a)(4) by its terms prevents debt relief agencies only from "advis[ing]" assisted persons "to incur" more debt. Covered professionals remain free to "tal[k] fully and candidly about the incurrence of debt in contemplation of filing a bankruptcy case." Brief for Milavetz 73. Section 526(a)(4) requires professionals only to avoid instructing or encouraging assisted persons to take on more debt in that circumstance. Cf. ABA Model Rule of Professional Conduct 1.2(d) (2009) ("A lawyer shall not counsel a client to engage, or assist a client, in conduct that the lawyer knows is criminal or fraudulent, but a lawyer may discuss the legal consequences of any proposed course of conduct with a client and may counsel or assist a client to make a good faith effort to determine the validity, scope, meaning or application of the law"). Even if the statute were not clear in this regard, we would reach the same conclusion about its scope because the inhibition of frank discussion serves no conceivable purpose within the statutory scheme. Cf. Johnson v. United States, 529 U. S. 694, 706, n. 9 (2000).5     Finally, we reject Milavetz's contention that, narrowly construed, §526(a)(4) is impermissibly vague. Milavetz urges that the concept of abusive prefiling conduct is too indefinite to withstand constitutional scrutiny and that uncertainty regarding the scope of the prohibition will chill protected speech. We disagree.     Under our reading of the statute, of course, the prohibited advice is not defined in terms of abusive prefiling conduct but rather the incurrence of additional debt when the impelling reason is the anticipation of bankruptcy. Even if the test depended upon the notion of abuse, however, Milavetz's claim would be fatally undermined by other provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, to which that concept is no stranger. As discussed above, the Code authorizes a bankruptcy court to decline to discharge fraudulent debts, see §523(a)(2), or to dismiss a case or convert it to a case under another chapter if it finds that granting relief would constitute abuse, see §707(b)(1). Attorneys and other professionals who give debtors bankruptcy advice must know of these provisions and their consequences for a debtor who in bad faith incurs additional debt prior to filing. Indeed, §707(b)(4)(C) states that an attorney's signature on bankruptcy filings "shall constitute a certification that the attorney has" determined that the filing "does not constitute an abuse under [§707(b)(1)]." Against this backdrop, it is hard to see how a rule that narrowly prohibits an attorney from affirmatively advising a client to commit this type of abusive prefiling conduct could chill attorney speech or inhibit the attorney-client relationship. Our construction of §526(a)(4) to prevent only advice principally motivated by the prospect of bankruptcy further ensures that professionals cannot unknowingly run afoul of its proscription.6 Because the scope of the prohibition is adequately defined, both on its own terms and by reference to the Code's other provisions, we reject Milavetz's vagueness claim.     As the foregoing shows, the language of the statute, together with other evidence of its purpose, makes this narrow reading of §526(a)(4) not merely a plausible interpretation but the more natural one. Accordingly, we reject the Eighth Circuit's conclusion and hold that a debt relief agency violates §526(a)(4) only when the impetus of the advice to incur more debt is the expectation of filing for bankruptcy and obtaining the attendant relief. Because our reading of the statute supplies a sufficient ground for reversing the Court of Appeals' decision, and because Milavetz challenges the constitutionality of the statute, as narrowed, only on vagueness grounds, we need not further consider whether the statute so construed withstands First Amendment scrutiny.C     Finally, we address the validity of §528's challenged disclosure requirements. Our first task in resolving this question is to determine the contours of Milavetz's claim. Although the nature of its challenge is not entirely clear from the briefing or decisions below, counsel for Milavetz insisted at oral argument that this is "not a facial challenge; it's an as-applied challenge." Tr. of Oral Arg. 26. We will approach the question consistent with Milavetz's characterization.7     We next consider the standard of scrutiny applicable to §528's disclosure requirements. The parties agree, as do we, that the challenged provisions regulate only commercial speech. Milavetz contends that our decision in Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y., 447 U. S. 557 (1980), supplies the proper standard for reviewing these requirements. The Court in that case held that restrictions on nonmisleading commercial speech regarding lawful activity must withstand intermediate scrutiny--that is, they must "directly advanc[e]" a substantial governmental interest and be "n[o] more extensive than is necessary to serve that interest." Id., at 566. Contesting Milavetz's premise, the Government maintains that §528 is directed at misleading commercial speech. For that reason, and because the challenged provisions impose a disclosure requirement rather than an affirmative limitation on speech, the Government contends that the less exacting scrutiny described in Zauderer governs our review. We agree.     Zauderer addressed the validity of a rule of professional conduct that required attorneys who advertised contingency-fee services to disclose in their advertisements that a losing client might still be responsible for certain litigation fees and costs. Noting that First Amendment protection for commercial speech is justified in large part by the information's value to consumers, the Court concluded that an attorney's constitutionally protected interest in not providing the required factual information is "minimal." 471 U. S., at 651. Unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements offend the First Amendment by chilling protected speech, but "an advertiser's rights are adequately protected as long as disclosure requirements are reasonably related to the State's interest in preventing deception of consumers." Ibid.     The challenged provisions of §528 share the essential features of the rule at issue in Zauderer. As in that case, §528's required disclosures are intended to combat the problem of inherently misleading commercial advertisements--specifically, the promise of debt relief without any reference to the possibility of filing for bankruptcy, which has inherent costs. Additionally, the disclosures entail only an accurate statement identifying the advertiser's legal status and the character of the assistance provided, and they do not prevent debt relief agencies like Milavetz from conveying any additional information.     The same characteristics of §528 that make it analogous to the rule in Zauderer serve to distinguish it from those at issue in In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191 (1982), to which the Court applied the intermediate scrutiny of Central Hudson. The ethical rules addressed in R. M. J. prohibited attorneys from advertising their practice areas in terms other than those prescribed by the State Supreme Court and from announcing the courts in which they were admitted to practice. See 455 U. S., at 197-198. Finding that the restricted statements were not inherently misleading and that the State had failed to show that the appellant's advertisements were themselves likely to mislead consumers, see id., at 205, the Court applied Central Hudson's intermediate scrutiny and invalidated the restrictions as insufficiently tailored to any substantial state interest, 455 U. S., at 205-206. In so holding, the Court emphasized that States retain authority to regulate inherently misleading advertisements, particularly through disclosure requirements, and it noted that advertisements for professional services pose a special risk of deception. See id., at 203, 207.     Milavetz makes much of the fact that the Government in these consolidated cases has adduced no evidence that its advertisements are misleading. Zauderer forecloses that argument: "When the possibility of deception is as self-evident as it is in this case, we need not require the State to 'conduct a survey of the ... public before it [may] determine that the [advertisement] had a tendency to mislead.' " 471 U. S., at 652-653 (quoting FTC v. Colgate-Palmolive Co., 380 U. S. 374, 391-392 (1965)). Evidence in the congressional record demonstrating a pattern of advertisements that hold out the promise of debt relief without alerting consumers to its potential cost, see 1998 Hearings, pt. III, at 86, 90-94, is adequate to establish that the likelihood of deception in this case "is hardly a speculative one," 471 U. S., at 652.     Milavetz alternatively argues that the term "debt relief agency" is confusing and misleading and that requiring its inclusion in advertisements cannot be "reasonably related" to the Government's interest in preventing consumer deception, as Zauderer requires. Id., at 651. This contention amounts to little more than a preference on Milavetz's part for referring to itself as something other than a "debt relief agency"--e.g., an attorney or a law firm. For several reasons, we conclude that this preference lacks any constitutional basis. First, Milavetz offers no evidence to support its claim that the label is confusing. Because §528 by its terms applies only to debt relief agencies, the disclosures are necessarily accurate to that extent: Only debt relief agencies must identify themselves as such in their advertisements. This statement provides interested observers with pertinent information about the advertiser's services and client obligations.     Other information that Milavetz must or may include in its advertisements for bankruptcy-assistance services provides additional assurance that consumers will not misunderstand the term. The required statement that the advertiser " 'help[s] people file for bankruptcy relief' " gives meaningful context to the term "debt relief agency." And Milavetz may further identify itself as a law firm or attorney. Section 528 also gives Milavetz flexibility to tailor the disclosures to its individual circumstances, as long as the resulting statements are "substantially similar" to the statutory examples. §§528(a)(4) and (b)(2)(B).     Finally, we reject Milavetz's argument that §528 is not reasonably related to any governmental interest because it applies equally to attorneys who represent creditors, as Milavetz sometimes does. The required disclosures, Milavetz contends, would be counterfactual and misleading in that context. This claim is premised on an untenable reading of the statute. We think it evident from the definition of "assisted person"--which is stated in terms of the person's debts, see §101(3)--and from the text and structure of the debt-relief-agency provisions in §§526, 527, and 528 that those provisions, including §528's disclosure requirements, govern only professionals who offer bankruptcy-related services to consumer debtors. Section 528 is itself expressly concerned with advertisements pertaining to "bankruptcy assistance services," "the benefits of bankruptcy," "excessive debt, debt collection pressure, or inability to pay any consumer debt," §§528(a)(3) and (b)(2). Moreover, like the other debt-relief-agency provisions, that section is codified in a subchapter of the Bankruptcy Code entitled "debtor's duties and benefits." 11 U. S. C., ch. 5, subch. II. In context, reading §528 to govern advertisements aimed at creditors would be as anomalous as the result of which Milavetz complains. Once again, we decline Milavetz's invitation to adopt a view of the statute that is contrary to its plain meaning and would produce an absurd result.     Because §528's requirements that Milavetz identify itself as a debt relief agency and include certain information about its bankruptcy-assistance and related services are "reasonably related to the [Government's] interest in preventing deception of consumers," Zauderer, 471 U. S., at 651, we uphold those provisions as applied to Milavetz.IV     For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit is affirmed as to §§101(12A) and 528 and reversed as to §526(a)(4), and the cases are remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Scalia, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.     I join the opinion of the Court, except for footnote 3, which notes that the legislative history supports what the statute unambiguously says. The Court first notes that statements in the Report of the House Committee on the Judiciary "indicate concern with abusive practices undertaken by attorneys." Ante, at 6, n. 3. Perhaps, but only the concern of the author of the Report. Such statements tell us nothing about what the statute means, since (1) we do not know that the members of the Committee read the Report, (2) it is almost certain that they did not vote on the Report (that is not the practice), and (3) even if they did read and vote on it, they were not, after all, those who made this law. The statute before us is a law because its text was approved by a majority vote of the House and the Senate, and was signed by the President. Even indulging the extravagant assumption that Members of the House other than members of its Committee on the Judiciary read the Report (and the further extravagant assumption that they agreed with it), the Members of the Senate could not possibly have read it, since it did not exist when the Senate passed the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005. And the President surely had more important things to do.     The footnote's other source of legislative history is truly mystifying. For the proposition that "the legislative record elsewhere documents misconduct by attorneys" which was presumably the concern of Congress, the Court cites a reproduction of a tasteless advertisement that was (1) an attachment to the written statement of a witness, (2) in a hearing held seven years prior to this statute's passage, (3) before a subcommittee of the House considering a different consumer bankruptcy reform bill that never passed.* "Elsewhere" indeed.     The Court acknowledges that nothing can be gained by this superfluous citation (it admits the footnote is "unnecessary in light of the statute's unambiguous language," ante, at 6, n. 3). But much can be lost. Our cases have said that legislative history is irrelevant when the statutory text is clear. See, e.g., United States v. Gonzales, 520 U. S. 1, 6 (1997); Connecticut Nat. Bank v. Germain, 503 U. S. 249, 254 (1992). The footnote advises conscientious attorneys that this is not true, and that they must spend time and their clients' treasure combing the annals of legislative history in all cases: To buttress their case where the statutory text is unambiguously in their favor; and to attack an unambiguous text that is against them. If legislative history is relevant to confirm that a clear text means what it says, it is presumably relevant to show that an apparently clear text does not mean what it seems to say. Even for those who believe in the legal fiction that committee reports reflect congressional intent, footnote 3 is a bridge too far.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Thomas, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.     I concur in the judgment and join all but Part III-C of the Court's opinion. I agree with the Court that 11 U. S. C. §528's advertising disclosure requirements survive First Amendment scrutiny on the record before us. I write separately because different reasons lead me to that conclusion.     I have never been persuaded that there is any basis in the First Amendment for the relaxed scrutiny this Court applies to laws that suppress nonmisleading commercial speech. See 44 Liquormart, Inc. v. Rhode Island, 517 U. S. 484, 522-523 (1996) (opinion concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (discussing Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y., 447 U. S. 557 (1980)). In this case, the Court applies a still lower standard of scrutiny to review a law that compels the disclosure of commercial speech--i.e., the rule articulated in Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626 (1985), that laws that require the disclosure of factual information in commercial advertising may be upheld so long as they are "reasonably related" to the government's interest in preventing consumer deception, id., at 651.     I am skeptical of the premise on which Zauderer rests--that, in the commercial-speech context, "the First Amendment interests implicated by disclosure requirements are substantially weaker than those at stake when speech is actually suppressed," id., at 652, n. 14; see id., at 650 (citing "material differences between disclosure requirements and outright prohibitions on speech"). We have refused in other contexts to attach any "constitutional significance" to the difference between regulations that compel protected speech and regulations that restrict it. See, e.g., Riley v. National Federation of Blind of N. C., Inc., 487 U. S. 781, 796-797 (1988). I see no reason why that difference should acquire constitutional significance merely because the regulations at issue involve commercial speech. See Glickman v. Wileman Brothers & Elliott, Inc., 521 U. S. 457, 480-481 (1997) (Souter, J., dissenting) (arguing that "commercial speech is ... subject to [this] First Amendment principle: that compelling cognizable speech officially is just as suspect as suppressing it, and is typically subject to the same level of scrutiny"); id., at 504 (Thomas, J., dissenting); cf. United States v. United Foods, Inc., 533 U. S. 405, 419 (2001) (Thomas, J., concurring) (stating that regulations that compel funding for commercial advertising "must be subjected to the most stringent First Amendment scrutiny").     Accordingly, I would be willing to reexamine Zauderer and its progeny in an appropriate case to determine whether these precedents provide sufficient First Amendment protection against government-mandated disclosures.1 Because no party asks us to do so here, however, I agree with the Court that the Zauderer standard governs our review of the challenge to §528 brought by the Milavetz law firm and the other plaintiffs in this action (hereinafter Milavetz).     Yet even under Zauderer, we "have not presumptively endorsed" laws requiring the use of "government-scripted disclaimers" in commercial advertising. See Borgner v. Florida Bd. of Dentistry, 537 U. S. 1080, 1082 (2002) (Thomas, J., dissenting from denial of certiorari). Zauderer upheld the imposition of sanctions against an attorney under a rule of professional conduct that required advertisements for contingency-fee services to disclose that losing clients might be responsible for litigation fees and costs. See 471 U. S., at 650-653. Importantly, however, Zauderer's advertisement was found to be misleading on its face, and the regulation in that case did not mandate the specific form or text of the disclosure. Ibid. Thus, Zauderer does not stand for the proposition that the government can constitutionally compel the use of a scripted disclaimer in any circumstance in which its interest in preventing consumer deception might plausibly be at stake. In other words, a bare assertion by the government that a disclosure requirement is "intended" to prevent consumer deception, standing alone, is not sufficient to uphold the requirement as applied to all speech that falls within its sweep. See ante, at 20.     Instead, our precedents make clear that regulations aimed at false or misleading advertisements are permissible only where "the particular advertising is inherently likely to deceive or where the record indicates that a particular form or method of advertising has in fact been deceptive." In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191, 202 (1982) (emphasis added); see Zauderer, supra, at 651 ("recogniz[ing] that unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements might offend the First Amendment"). Therefore, a disclosure requirement passes constitutional muster only to the extent that it is aimed at advertisements that, by their nature, possess these traits. See R. M. J., supra, at 202; Ibanez v. Florida Dept. of Business and Professional Regulation, Bd. of Accountancy, 512 U. S. 136, 143, 146-147 (1994).     I do not read the Court's opinion to hold otherwise. See ante, at 20. Accordingly, and with that understanding, I turn to the question whether Milavetz's challenge to §528's disclosure requirements survives Zauderer scrutiny on the record before us.     As the Court notes, the posture of Milavetz's challenge inhibits our review of its First Amendment claim. See ante, at 19, n. 7. Milavetz challenged §528's constitutionality before the statute had ever been enforced against any of the firm's advertisements. Although Milavetz purports to challenge §528 only " 'as-applied' " to its own advertising, see ante, at 19, it did not introduce any evidence or exhibits to substantiate its claim. Thus, no court has seen a sampling of Milavetz's advertisements or even a declaration describing their contents and the media through which Milavetz seeks to transmit them. As a consequence, Milavetz's nominal "as applied" challenge appears strikingly similar to a facial challenge.     We generally disapprove of such challenges because they "often rest on speculation" and require courts to engage in " 'premature interpretation of statutes on the basis of factually barebones records.' " Washington State Grange v. Washington State Republican Party, 552 U. S. 442, 450 (2008) (quoting Sabri v. United States, 541 U. S. 600, 609 (2004)). Milavetz's claim invites the same problems. Milavetz alleges that §528's disclosure requirements are unconstitutional as applied to its advertisements because its advertisements are not misleading and because the disclaimer required by §528 will create, rather than reduce, confusion for Milavetz's potential clients. That may well be true. But because no record evidence of Milavetz's advertisements exists to guide our review, we can only speculate about the ways in which the statute might be applied to Milavetz's speech.     When forced to determine the constitutionality of a statute based solely on such conjecture, we will uphold the law if there is any "conceivabl[e]" manner in which it can be enforced consistent with the First Amendment. Washington State Grange, supra, at 456. In this case, both parties agree that §528's disclosure requirements cover, at a minimum, deceptive advertisements that promise to " 'wipe out' " debts without mentioning bankruptcy as the means of accomplishing this goal.2 Brief for Milavetz 82, 86; Brief for United States 60-62. As a result, there is at least one set of facts on which the statute could be constitutionally applied. Thus, I agree with the Court that Milavetz's challenge to §528 must fail.FOOTNOTESRegulation Z--promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board (Board) pursuant to its authority under the Truth in Lending Act--requires credit card issuers to disclose certain information to cardholders. The version of the regulation in effect at the time this dispute arose obliges issuers to provide to cardholders an "[i]nitial disclosure statement," 12 CFR §226.6, specifying "each periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge," §226.6(a)(2). It also imposes "[s]ubsequent disclosure requirements," §226.9, including notice to cardholders "[w]henever any term required to be disclosed under §226.6 is changed," §226.9(c)(1). When "a periodic rate or other finance charge is increased because of the consumer's delinquency or default," notice must be given "before the effective date of the change." Ibid.          At the time respondent McCoy filed suit, he was the holder of a credit card issued by petitioner Chase Bank. The cardholder agreement provided, in relevant part, that McCoy was eligible for "Preferred rates" as long as he met certain conditions. If any of those conditions were not met, Chase reserved the right to raise the rate, up to a pre-set maximum, and to apply the change to both existing and new balances. McCoy alleges that Chase increased his interest rate due to his delinquency or default and applied that increase retroactively, and that this action violated Regulation Z because Chase did not notify him of the increase until after it had taken effect. The District Court dismissed his complaint, holding that because the increase did not constitute a "change in terms" under §226.9(c), Chase was not required to notify him of the increase before implementing it. The Ninth Circuit reversed in relevant part, holding that Regulation Z requires issuers to provide notice of an interest-rate increase prior to its effective date.Held: At the time of the transactions at issue, Regulation Z did not require Chase to provide McCoy with a change-in-terms notice before implementing the agreement term allowing it to raise his interest rate, up to a pre-set maximum, following delinquency or default. Pp. 7-19.     (a) This case requires the Court to determine the meaning of a regulation promulgated by the Board under its statutory authority. However, Regulation Z's text is unclear with respect to the crucial interpretive question at issue: whether a change to an interest rate, pursuant to previously-disclosed contractual provision, constitutes a change to a "term required to be disclosed under §226.6" requiring a subsequent disclosure under §226.9(c)(1). Because of this ambiguity, the Court must look to the Board's own interpretation of the regulation for guidance in deciding this case. Pp. 7-12.     (b) The Board has made clear in its amicus brief to this Court that, in its view, Chase was not required to give McCoy notice of the interest rate increase under the applicable version of Regulation Z. This Court defers to an agency's interpretation of its own regulation, advanced in a legal brief, unless that interpretation is "plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation." Auer v. Robbins, 519 U. S. 452, 461 (internal quotation marks omitted). In Auer, the Court deferred to the Secretary of Labor's interpretation of his own regulation, presented in an amicus brief submitted by the agency at the Court's invitation. The Court held that the fact that the interpretation came in a legal brief did not, "in the circumstances of th[at] case, make it unworthy of deference." Id., at 462. The interpretation was "in no sense a post hoc rationalization advanced by an agency seeking to defend past agency action against attack," ibid. (internal quotation marks and alteration omitted), and there was "no reason to suspect that the interpretation [did] not reflect the agency's fair and considered judgment on the matter in question," ibid. The brief submitted by the Board here, at the Court's invitation, is no different. As in Auer, there is no reason to believe that the Board's interpretation is a "post hoc rationalization" taken as a litigation position, for the Board is not a party to this case. And its interpretation is neither "plainly erroneous" nor "inconsistent with" the indeterminate text of Regulation Z. Thus, there is no reason to suspect that the Board's position in its amicus brief reflects anything other than its fair and considered judgment as to what the regulation required at the time this dispute arose. That Congress and the Board may currently hold a different view does not mean that deference is not warranted to the Board's understanding of what the applicable version of Regulation Z required. Under Auer, therefore, it is clear that deference to the interpretation in the agency amicus brief is warranted. Pp. 12-16.     (c) McCoy errs in arguing that deference to a legal brief is inappropriate because the interpretation of Regulation Z in the Official Staff Commentary commands a different result. While Commentary promulgated by the Board as an interpretation of Regulation Z may warrant deference as a general matter, the Commentary explaining the requirements at issue in this case largely replicates the ambiguity present in the regulatory text, and therefore offers no reason to disregard the interpretation advanced in the Board's amicus brief. Pp. 16-19.559 F. 3d 963, reversed and remanded.     Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.CHASE BANK USA, N. A., PETITIONER v. JAMES A. McCOY, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situatedon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[January 24, 2011]     Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.     As applicable to this case, Regulation Z--promulgated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) pursuant to its authority under the Truth in Lending Act (TILA), 82 Stat. 146, 15 U. S. C. §1601 et seq.--requires that issuers of credit cards provide cardholders with an "[i]nitial disclosure statement" specifying, inter alia, "each periodic rate" associated with the account. 12 CFR §226.6(a)(2) (2008). The regulation also imposes "[s]ubsequent disclosure requirements," including notice to cardholders "[w]henever any term required to be disclosed under §226.6 is changed." §226.9(c)(1). This case presents the question whether Regulation Z requires an issuer to notify a cardholder of an interest-rate increase instituted pursuant to a provision of the cardholder agreement giving the issuer discretion to increase the rate, up to a stated maximum, in the event of the cardholder's delinquency or default. We conclude that the version of Regulation Z applicable in this case does not require such notice.IA     Congress passed TILA to promote consumers' "informed use of credit" by requiring "meaningful disclosure of credit terms," 15 U. S. C. §1601(a), and granted the Board the authority to issue regulations to achieve TILA's purposes, §1604(a). Pursuant to this authority, the Board promulgated Regulation Z, which requires credit card issuers to disclose certain information to consumers.1 Two provisions of Regulation Z are at issue in this case. The first, 12 CFR §226.6, explains what information credit card issuers are obliged to provide to cardholders in the "[i]nitial disclosure statement," including "each periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge." §226.6(a)(2). The second, §226.9, imposes upon issuers certain "[s]ubsequent disclosure requirements," including a requirement to provide notice "[w]henever any term required to be disclosed under §226.6 is changed." §226.9(c)(1). As a general matter, notice of a change in terms has to be provided 15 days in advance of the effective date of the change. Ibid. When "a periodic rate or other finance charge is increased because of the consumer's delinquency or default," however, notice only need be given "before the effective date of the change." Ibid. Regulation Z also explains that no notice is required under §226.9 when the change in terms "results from ... the consumer's default or delinquency (other than an increase in the periodic rate or other finance charge)." §226.9(c)(2).     The official interpretation of Regulation Z (Official Staff Commentary or Commentary) promulgated by the Board explains these requirements further: Section 226.9(c)(1)'s notice-of-change requirement does not apply "if the specific change is set forth initially, such as ... an increase that occurs when the consumer has been under an agreement to maintain a certain balance in a savings account in order to keep a particular rate and the account balance falls below the specified minimum." 12 CFR pt. 226, Supp. I, Comment 9(c)-1, p. 506 (2008) (hereinafter Comment 9(c)-1). On the other hand, the Commentary explains, "notice must be given if the contract allows the creditor to increase the rate at its discretion but does not include specific terms for an increase (for example, when an increase may occur under the creditor's contract reservation right to increase the periodic rate)." Ibid. As to the timing requirements, the Commentary states: "[A] notice of change in terms is required, but it may be mailed or delivered as late as the effective date of the change . . . [i]f there is an increased periodic rate or any other finance charge attributable to the consumer's delinquency or default." Id., Comment 9(c)(1)-3, at 507 (hereinafter Comment 9(c)(1)-3).     At least as early as 2004, the Board began considering revisions to Regulation Z. The new regulations the Board eventually issued do not apply to the present case, but the details of their promulgation provides useful background in considering the parties' arguments with respect to the version of Regulation Z we address here. In 2004 the Board issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking announcing its intent to consider revisions. 69 Fed. Reg. 70925 (2004). In so doing, the Board described how it understood the notice requirements to function at that time:"[A]dvance notice is not required in all cases. For example, if the interest rate or other finance charge increases due to a consumer's default or delinquency, notice is required, but need not be given in advance. 12 CFR 226.9(c)(1); comment 9(c)(1)-3. And no change-in-terms notice is required if the creditor specifies in advance the circumstances under which an increase to the finance charge or an annual fee will occur. Comment 9(c)-1. For example, some credit card account agreements permit the card issuer to increase the interest rate if the consumer pays late . . . . Under Regulation Z, because the circumstances are specified in advance in the account agreement, the creditor need not provide a change-in-terms notice 15 days in advance of the increase; the new rate will appear on the periodic statement for the cycle in which the increase occurs." Id., at 70931-70932.The Board asked for public comment on whether these "existing disclosure rules" were "adequate to enable consumers to make timely decisions about how to manage their accounts." Id., at 70932.     Subsequently, in 2007, the Board published proposed amendments to Regulation Z and the Commentary. 72 Fed. Reg. 32948. One amendment would have required 45 days' advance written notice when "(i) [a] rate is increased due to the consumer's delinquency or default; or (ii) [a] rate is increased as a penalty for one or more events specified in the account agreement, such as making a late payment or obtaining an extension of credit that exceeds the credit limit." Id., at 33058 (proposed 12 CFR §226.9(g)). The Board explained that, under the amendments, "creditors would no longer be permitted to provide for the immediate application of penalty pricing upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the contract." 72 Fed. Reg. 33012.     In January 2009, the Board promulgated a final rule implementing many of the proposed changes, scheduled to be effective July 1, 2010. 74 Fed. Reg. 5244. Most saliently, the Board included a new provision, §226.9(g), which requires 45 days' advance notice of increases in rates due to cardholder delinquency or default, or as a penalty, including penalties for "events specified in the account agreement, such as making a late payment ... ." 12 CFR §226.9(g)(1)(2010). In May 2009, Congress enacted the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act (Credit CARD Act or Act), 123 Stat. 1734. The Act amended TILA, in relevant part, to require 45 days' advance notice of most increases in credit card annual percentage rates. 15 U. S. C. §1637(i) (2006 ed., Supp. III). Because the Credit CARD Act's notice requirements with respect to interest-rate increases largely mirror the requirements in the new version of the regulation, the Board changed the effective date of those requirements to August 20, 2009, to coincide with the statutory schedule. See 74 Fed. Reg. 36077-36079. The transactions giving rise to the dispute at issue in this case, however, arose prior to enactment of the Act and the promulgation of the new regulatory provisions.B     Respondent James A. McCoy brought this action in the Superior Court of Orange County, California on behalf of himself and others similarly situated against petitioner Chase Bank USA, N. A.; Chase removed the action to the United States District Court for the Central District of California under 28 U. S. C. §1441. At the time of the transactions at issue, McCoy was the holder of a credit card issued by Chase. The cardholder agreement between the parties (Agreement) provides, in relevant part, that McCoy is eligible for "Preferred rates," but that to keep such rates he has to meet certain conditions, including making "at least the required minimum payments when due on [his] Account and on all other loans or accounts with [Chase] and [his] other creditors." Brief for Respondent 8, n. 2; see also 559 F. 3d 963, 972, n. 1 (CA9 2009) (Cudahy, J., dissenting). If any of the conditions in the Agreement are not met, Chase reserves the right to "change [McCoy's] interest rate and impose a Non-Preferred rate up to the maximum Non-Preferred rate described in the Pricing Schedule" and to apply any changes "to existing as well as new balances ... effective with the billing cycle ending on the review date." Brief for Respondent 8, n. 2.     McCoy's complaint alleges that Chase increased his interest rate due to his delinquency or default, and applied that increase retroactively. McCoy asserts that the rate increase violates Regulation Z because, pursuant to the Agreement, Chase did not notify him of the increase until after it had taken effect.2 The District Court dismissed McCoy's complaint, holding that because the increase did not constitute a "change in terms" as contemplated by §226.9(c), Chase was not required to notify him of the increase before implementing it. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 37a-47a.     A divided panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed in relevant part, holding that Regulation Z requires issuers to provide notice of an interest-rate increase prior to its effective date. See 559 F. 3d, at 969. Concluding that the text of Regulation Z is ambiguous and that the agency commentary accompanying the 2004 request for comments and the 2007 proposed amendments favors neither party's interpretation, the court relied primarily on the Official Staff Commentary; in particular, the court noted that Comment 9(c)-1 requires no notice of a change in terms if the "specific change" at issue is set forth in the initial agreement. See id., at 965-967. The court found, however, that because the Agreement vests Chase with discretion to impose any Non-Preferred rate it chooses (up to the specified maximum) upon McCoy's default, the Agreement "provides McCoy with no basis for predicting in advance what retroactive interest rate Chase will choose to charge him if he defaults." Id., at 967. Accordingly, the court held that because the Agreement does not alert McCoy to the "specific change" that will occur if he defaults, Chase was obliged to give notice of that change prior to its effective date. Ibid. Relying primarily on the 2004 notice of proposed rulemaking and the 2007 proposed amendments, the dissenting judge concluded that Regulation Z does not require notice of an interest-rate increase in the circumstances of this case. See id., at 972-979 (opinion of Cudahy, J.).     After the Ninth Circuit's ruling, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit decided the same question in Chase's favor. See Shaner v. Chase Bank USA, N. A., 587 F. 3d 488 (2009). The First Circuit relied in part on an amicus brief submitted by the Board at the court's request, in which the agency advanced the same interpretation of Regulation Z that it now does before this Court. Id., at 493. We granted certiorari to resolve this division in authority.3 561 U. S. ___ (2010).II     In order to decide this case, we must determine whether an interest-rate increase constitutes a "change in terms" under Regulation Z, when the change is made pursuant to a provision in the cardholder agreement allowing the issuer to increase the rate, up to a stated maximum, in the event of the cardholder's delinquency or default. Accordingly, this case calls upon us to determine the meaning of a regulation promulgated by the Board under its statutory authority. The parties dispute the proper interpretation of the regulation itself, as well as whether we should accord deference to the Board's interpretation of its regulation. As explained below, we conclude that the text of the regulation is ambiguous, and that deference is warranted to the interpretation of that text advanced by the Board in its amicus brief.A     Our analysis begins with the text of Regulation Z in effect at the time this dispute arose. First, §226.6 requires an "[i]nitial disclosure statement":     "The creditor shall disclose to the consumer, in terminology consistent with that to be used on the periodic statement, each of the following items, to the extent applicable:      "(a) Finance charge. The circumstances under which a finance charge will be imposed and an explanation of how it will be determined, as follows:.?????.?????.?????.?????.      "(2) A disclosure of each periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge, the range of balances to which it is applicable, and the corresponding annual percentage rate. When different periodic rates apply to different types of transactions, the types of transactions to which the periodic rates apply shall also be disclosed." (Footnotes omitted.)Second, §226.9(c) requires certain "[s]ubsequent disclosure requirements":     "Change in terms--(1) Written notice required. Whenever any term required to be disclosed under §226.6 is changed or the required minimum periodic payment is increased, the creditor shall mail or deliver written notice of the change to each consumer who may be affected. The notice shall be mailed or delivered at least 15 days prior to the effective date of the change. The 15-day timing requirement does not apply if the change has been agreed to by the consumer, or if a periodic rate or other finance charge is increased because of the consumer's delinquency or default; the notice shall be given, however, before the effective date of the change.      "(2) Notice not required. No notice under this section is required when the change ... results from ... the consumer's default or delinquency (other than an increase in the periodic rate or other finance charge)."     The question is whether the increase in McCoy's interest rate constitutes a change to a "term required to be disclosed under §226.6," requiring a subsequent disclosure under §226.9(c)(1). One of the initial terms that must be disclosed under §226.6 is "each periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge ... and the corresponding annual percentage rate." §226.6(a)(2). McCoy argues that, because an increase in the interest rate increases the "periodic rate" applicable to his account, such an increase constitutes a change in terms within the meaning of §226.9(c)(1). As further support, McCoy points to two provisions in §226.9(c): first, that notice of an increase in the interest rate must be provided "before the effective date of the change" when the increase is due to "the consumer's delinquency or default," §226.9(c)(1); and second, that no notice is required of a change resulting "from the consumer's default or delinquency (other than an increase in the periodic rate or other finance charge)," §226.9(c)(2). Accordingly, because §226.9(c) includes interest-rate increases due to delinquency or default, McCoy argues that the plain text of the regulation indicates that a change in the periodic rate due to such default is a "change in terms" requiring notice under §226.9(c)(1).     We recognize that McCoy's argument has some force; read in isolation, the language quoted above certainly suggests that credit card issuers must provide notice of an interest-rate increase imposed pursuant to cardholder delinquency or default. But McCoy's analysis begs the key question: whether the increase actually changed a "term" of the Agreement that was "required to be disclosed under §226.6." If not, §226.9(c)'s subsequent notice requirement with respect to a "change in terms" does not apply. Chase argues precisely this: The increase did not change a term in the Agreement, but merely implemented one that had been initially disclosed, as required. This interpretation, though not commanded by the text of the regulation, is reasonable. Section 226.6(a)(2) requires initial disclosure of "each periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge." The Agreement itself discloses both the initial rate (Preferred rate) and the maximum rate to be imposed in the event of default (Non-Preferred rate). See Brief for Respondent 8, n. 2; Brief for Petitioner 13-14.4 Accordingly, it is plausible to understand the Agreement to initially disclose "each periodic rate" to be applied to the account, and Chase arguably did not "change" those rates as a result of McCoy's default. Instead, Chase merely implemented the previously disclosed term specifying the Non-Preferred rate.5     This reading still leaves the question why §226.9(c)(1) refers to interest-rate increases resulting from delinquency or default if such increases do not constitute a "change in terms." One reasonable explanation Chase offers is that §226.9(c)(1) refers to interest-rate increases that were not specifically outlined in the agreement's initial terms (unlike those in the present Agreement). For example, credit card agreements routinely include a "reservation of rights" provision giving the issuer discretion to change the terms of the contract, often as a means of responding to events that raise doubts about the cardholder's creditworthiness. An issuer may exercise this general contract-modification authority and raise the interest rate applicable to the account to address any heightened risk. See Brief for Petitioner 6. In such a case, §226.9(c)(1) is best read to require that notice must be given prior to the effective date of the increase, because the unilateral increase instituted by the issuer actually changed a term--the interest rate--in a manner not specifically contemplated by the agreement.6 See Comment 9(c)-1 (providing that notice is required if the agreement "does not include specific terms for an increase (for example, when an increase may occur under the creditor's contract reservation right to increase the periodic rate)").     In short, Regulation Z is unclear with respect to the crucial interpretive question: whether the interest-rate increase at issue in this case constitutes a "change in terms" requiring notice. We need not decide which party's interpretation is more persuasive, however; both are plausible, and the text alone does not permit a more definitive reading. Accordingly, we find Regulation Z to be ambiguous as to the question presented, and must therefore look to the Board's own interpretation of the regulation for guidance in deciding this case. See Coeur Alaska, Inc. v. Southeast Alaska Conservation Council, 557 U. S. ___, ___ (2009) (slip op., at 14) (stating that when an agency's regulations construing a statute "are ambiguous ... we next turn to the agencies' subsequent interpretation of those regulations" for guidance); Ford Motor Credit Co. v. Milhollin, 444 U. S. 555, 560 (1980) (stating that when the question presented "is not governed by clear expression in the ... regulation ... it is appropriate to defer to the Federal Reserve Board and staff in determining what resolution of that issue" is appropriate).B     The Board has made clear in the amicus brief it has submitted to this Court that, in the Board's view, Chase was not required to give McCoy notice of the interest rate increase under the version of Regulation Z applicable at the time. Under Auer v. Robbins, 519 U. S. 452 (1997), we defer to an agency's interpretation of its own regulation, advanced in a legal brief, unless that interpretation is "plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation." Id., at 461 (internal quotation marks omitted). Because the interpretation the Board presents in its brief is consistent with the regulatory text, we need look no further in deciding this case.7     In its brief to this Court, the Board explains that the Ninth Circuit "erred in concluding that, at the time of the transactions at issue in this case, Regulation Z required credit card issuers to provide a change-in-terms notice before implementing a contractual default-rate provision." See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 11; see also ibid. (stating that when a term of an agreement authorized the credit provider "to increase a consumer's interest rate if the consumer failed to make timely payments . . . any resulting rate increase did not represent a 'change in terms,' but rather the implementation of terms already set forth in the initial disclosure statement"); id., at 15-16 (stating that "[w]hen a cardholder agreement identifies a contingency that triggers a rate increase, and the maximum possible rate that the issuer may charge if that contingency occurs," then "no change-in-terms notice is required" under Regulation Z).8 Under the principles set forth in Auer, we give deference to this interpretation.     In Auer we deferred to the Secretary of Labor's interpretation of his own regulation, presented in an amicus brief submitted by the agency at our invitation. 519 U. S., at 461-462. Responding to the petitioners' objection that the agency's interpretation came in a legal brief, we held that this fact did not, "in the circumstances of this case, make it unworthy of deference." Id., at 462. We observed that "[t]he Secretary's position is in no sense a 'post hoc rationalizatio[n]' advanced by an agency seeking to defend past agency action against attack." Ibid. (quoting Bowen v. Georgetown Univ. Hospital, 488 U. S. 204, 212 (1988)). We added: "There is simply no reason to suspect that the interpretation does not reflect the agency's fair and considered judgment on the matter in question." Auer, 519 U. S., at 462.     The brief submitted by the Board in the present case, at our invitation, is no different. As in Auer, there is no reason to believe that the interpretation advanced by the Board is a "post hoc rationalization" taken as a litigation position. The Board is not a party to this case. And as is evident from our discussion of Regulation Z itself, see Part II-A, supra, the Board's interpretation is neither "plainly erroneous" nor "inconsistent with" the indeterminate text of the regulation. In short, there is no reason to suspect that the position the Board takes in its amicus brief reflects anything other than the agency's fair and considered judgment as to what the regulation required at the time this dispute arose.     McCoy may well be correct in asserting that it is better policy to oblige credit-card issuers to give advance notice of a rate increase; after all, both Congress and the Board have recently indicated that such a requirement is warranted. See Credit CARD Act, §101(a)(1), 123 Stat. 1735-1736; 12 CFR §226.9(g) (2009). That Congress and the Board may currently hold such views does not mean, however, that deference is not warranted to the Board's different understanding of what the pre-2009 version of Regulation Z required. To the contrary, the interpretation the Board advances in its amicus brief is entirely consistent with its past views. The 2004 notice of rulemaking and the 2007 proposed amendments to Regulation Z make clear that, prior to 2009, the Board's fair and considered judgment was that "no change-in-terms notice is required if the creditor specifies in advance the circumstances under which an increase ... will occur," 69 Fed. Reg. 70931, and "immediate application of penalty pricing upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the contract" was permissible, 72 Fed. Reg. 33012.     Under Auer, therefore, it is clear that deference to the interpretation in the Board's amicus brief is warranted. The cases McCoy cites in which we declined to apply Auer do not suggest that deference is unwarranted here. In Gonzales v. Oregon, 546 U. S. 243 (2006), we declined to defer because--in sharp contrast to the present case-the regulation in question did "little more than restate the terms of the statute" pursuant to which the regulation was promulgated. Id., at 257. Accordingly, no deference was warranted to an agency interpretation of what were, in fact, Congress' words. Ibid. In contrast, at the time of the transactions in this case, TILA itself included no requirements with respect to the disclosure of a change in credit terms. In Christensen v. Harris County, 529 U. S. 576 (2000), we declined to apply Auer deference because the regulation in question was unambiguous, and adopting the agency's contrary interpretation would "permit the agency, under the guise of interpreting a regulation, to create de facto a new regulation." 529 U. S., at 588. In light of Regulation Z's ambiguity, there is no such danger here. And our statement in Christensen that "deference is warranted only when the language of the regulation is ambiguous," ibid., is perfectly consonant with Auer itself; if the text of a regulation is unambiguous, a conflicting agency interpretation advanced in an amicus brief will necessarily be "plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation" in question. Auer, 519 U. S., at 461 (internal quotation marks omitted). Accordingly, under our precedent deference to the Board's interpretation of its own regulation, as presented in the agency's amicus brief, is wholly appropriate.C     McCoy further argues that deference to a legal brief is inappropriate because the interpretation of Regulation Z in the Official Staff Commentary commands a different result. To be sure, the Official Staff Commentary promulgated by the Board as an interpretation of Regulation Z may warrant deference as a general matter. See Anderson Bros. Ford v. Valencia, 452 U. S. 205, 219 (1981) (holding that "the Board's interpretation of its own regulation" should generally "be accepted by the courts"); Milhollin, 444 U. S., at 565 ("Unless demonstrably irrational, Federal Reserve Board staff opinions construing [TILA] or Regulation [Z] should be dispositive"). We find, however, that the Commentary at issue here largely replicates the ambiguity present in the regulatory text, and therefore it offers us nothing to which we can defer with respect to the precise interpretive question before us.9 Cf. Smith v. City of Jackson, 544 U. S. 228, 248 (2005) (O'Connor, J., concurring in judgment) (noting that deference is not warranted when "there is no reasoned agency reading of the text to which we might defer").     The Ninth Circuit relied primarily on Comment 9(c)(1)-3, which states in relevant part that "a notice of change in terms is required, but it may be mailed or delivered as late as the effective date of the change . . . [i]f there is an increased periodic rate or any other finance charge attributable to the consumer's delinquency or default." This exposition of the regulation does not add any clarity to the regulatory text, which expresses the same requirement. See §226.9(c)(1) (2008) ("[I]f a periodic rate or other finance charge is increased because of the consumer's delinquency or default ... notice shall be given ... before the effective date of the change"). And like §226.9(c), Comment 9(c) is entitled "Change in terms." Accordingly, Chase's plausible interpretation of §226.9(c)(1) is equally applicable to Comment 9(c)(1)-3: On Chase's view, because the interest-rate increase at issue in this case did not constitute a "change in terms," the disclosure requirements in the regulation and Commentary simply do not come into play. See supra, at 10-11.     Comment 9(c)-1 is also ambiguous, though the most plausible reading supports Chase's position more than it does McCoy's. The Comment begins: "No notice of a change in terms need be given if the specific change is set forth initially" in the agreement. We do not find that the Comment's addition of the modifier "specific" to the word "change" enables us to determine, any more than we could in light of the text of the regulation, see supra, at 12, whether the interest-rate increase at issue in this case was a "change in terms" requiring notice. According to Chase, as long as the agreement explains that delinquency or default might trigger an increased interest rate and states the maximum level to which the rate could be increased, the "specific change" that ensues upon default has been set forth initially and no additional notice is required before implementation. McCoy argues to the contrary: Under Comment 9(c)-1, any new rate imposed after delinquency or default must be disclosed prior to the effective date, if the particular rate (rather than the maximum rate) was not specifically mentioned in the agreement. On the whole, then, the Official Staff Commentary's explanation of Regulation Z does not resolve the uncertainty in the regulatory text, and offers us no reason to disregard the interpretation advanced in the Board's amicus brief.10     McCoy further contends that our reliance here on an agency interpretation presented outside the four corners of the Official Staff Commentary will require future litigants, as well as the Board, to expend time and resources "to comb through ... correspondence, publications, and the agency's website to determine the agency's position." Brief for Respondent 37-38. We are not convinced. McCoy may be correct that the Board established the Official Staff Commentary so as to centralize its opinion-making process and avoid "overburdening the industry with excessive detail and multiple research sources." 46 Fed. Reg. 50288. But his suggestion that, if we accord deference to an amicus brief, all other "unofficial" sources will be fair game is of no moment. Today we decide only that the amicus brief submitted by the Board is entitled to deference in light of "the circumstances of this case." Auer, 519 U. S., at 462.     Accordingly, we conclude that, at the time of the transactions at issue in this case, Regulation Z did not require Chase to provide McCoy with a change-in-terms notice before it implemented the Agreement term allowing it to raise his interest rate following delinquency or default.*??*??*     For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESFive years after the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) first approved metoclopramide, a drug commonly used to treat digestive tract problems, under the brand name Reglan, generic manufacturers such as petitioners also began producing the drug. Because of accumulating evidence that long-term metoclopramide use can cause tardive dyskinesia, a severe neurological disorder, warning labels for the drug have been strengthened and clarified several times, most recently in 2009.          Respondents were prescribed Reglan in 2001 and 2002, but both received the generic drug from their pharmacists. After taking the drug as prescribed for several years, both developed tardive dyskinesia. In separate state-court tort actions, they sued petitioners, the generic drug manufacturers that produced the metoclopramide they took (Manufacturers). Each respondent alleged, inter alia, that long-term metoclopramide use caused her disorder and that the Manufacturers were liable under state tort law for failing to provide adequate warning labels. In both suits, the Manufacturers urged that federal statutes and FDA regulations pre-empted the state tort claims by requiring the same safety and efficacy labeling for generic metoclopramide as was mandated at the time for Reglan. The Fifth and Eighth Circuits rejected these arguments, holding that respondents' claims were not pre-empted.Held: The judgment is reversed, and the cases are remanded.588 F. 3d 603 and 593 F. 3d 428, reversed and remanded.     Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to all but Part III-B-2, concluding that federal drug regulations applicable to generic drug manufacturers directly conflict with, and thus pre-empt, these state claims. Pp. 4-14, 17-20.     (a) Because pre-emption analysis requires a comparison between federal and state law, the Court begins by identifying the state tort duties and federal labeling requirements applicable to the Manufacturers. Pp. 4-10.          (1) State tort law requires a manufacturer that is, or should be, aware of its drug's danger to label it in a way that renders it reasonably safe. Respondents pleaded that the Manufacturers knew, or should have known, both that the long-term use of their products carried a high risk of tardive dyskinesia and that their labels did not adequately warn of that risk. Taking these allegations as true, the state-law duty required the Manufacturers to use a different, stronger label than the one they actually used. Pp. 4-5.          (2) On the other hand, federal drug regulations, as interpreted by the FDA, prevented the Manufacturers from independently changing their generic drugs' safety labels. A manufacturer seeking federal approval to market a new drug must prove that it is safe and effective and that the proposed label is accurate and adequate. Although the same rules originally applied to all drugs, the 1984 law commonly called the Hatch-Waxman Amendments allows a generic drug manufacturer to gain FDA approval simply by showing that its drug is equivalent to an already-approved brand-name drug, and that the safety and efficacy labeling proposed for its drug is the same as that approved for the brand-name drug. Respondents contend that federal law nevertheless provides avenues through which the Manufacturers could have altered their metoclopramide labels in time to prevent the injuries here. These include: (1) the FDA's "changes-being-effected" (CBE) process, which permits drug manufacturers, without preapproval, to add or strengthen a warning label; and (2) sending "Dear Doctor" letters providing additional warnings to prescribing physicians and other healthcare professionals. However, the FDA denies that the Manufacturers could have used either of these processes to unilaterally strengthen their warning labels. The Court defers to the FDA's views because they are not plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulations, and there is no other reason to doubt that they reflect the FDA's fair and considered judgment. Auer v. Robbins, 519 U. S. 452, 461, 462. Assuming, without deciding, that the FDA is correct that federal law nevertheless required the Manufacturers to ask for the agency's assistance in convincing the brand-name manufacturer to adopt a stronger label, the Court turns to the pre-emption question. Pp. 5-10.     (b) Where state and federal law directly conflict, state law must give way. See, e.g., Wyeth v. Levine, 555 U. S. 555, 583. Such a conflict exists where it is "impossible for a private party to comply with both state and federal requirements." Freightliner Corp. v. Myrick, 514 U. S. 280, 287. Pp. 11-14, 17-20.          (1) The Court finds impossibility here. If the Manufacturers had independently changed their labels to satisfy their state-law duty to attach a safer label to their generic metoclopramide, they would have violated the federal requirement that generic drug labels be the same as the corresponding brand-name drug labels. Thus, it was impossible for them to comply with both state and federal law. And even if they had fulfilled their federal duty to ask for FDA help in strengthening the corresponding brand-name label, assuming such a duty exists, they would not have satisfied their state tort-law duty. State law demanded a safer label; it did not require communication with the FDA about the possibility of a safer label. Pp. 11-12.          (2) The Court rejects the argument that the Manufacturers' pre-emption defense fails because they failed to ask the FDA for help in changing the corresponding brand-name label. The proper question for "impossibility" analysis is whether the private party could independently do under federal law what state law requires of it. See Wyeth, supra, at 573. Accepting respondents' argument would render conflict pre-emption largely meaningless by making most conflicts between state and federal law illusory. In these cases, it is possible that, had the Manufacturers asked the FDA for help, they might have eventually been able to strengthen their warning label. But it is also possible that they could have convinced the FDA to reinterpret its regulations in a manner that would have opened the CBE process to them, persuaded the FDA to rewrite its generic drug regulations entirely, or talked Congress into amending the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. If these conjectures sufficed to prevent federal and state law from conflicting, it is unclear when, outside of express pre-emption, the Supremacy Clause would have any force. That Clause--which makes federal law "the supreme Law of the Land ... any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding," U. S. Const., Art. VI, cl. 2--cannot be read to permit an approach to pre-emption that renders conflict pre-emption all but meaningless. Here, it is enough to hold that when a party cannot satisfy its state duties without the Federal Government's special permission and assistance, which is dependent on the exercise of judgment by a federal agency, that party cannot independently satisfy those state duties for pre-emption purposes. Pp. 12-14, 17.          (3) Wyeth is not to the contrary. The Court there held that a state tort action against a brand-name drug manufacturer for failure to provide an adequate warning label was not pre-empted because it was possible for the manufacturer to comply with both state and federal law under the FDA's CBE regulation. 555 U. S., at 572-573. The federal statutes and regulations that apply to brand-name drug manufacturers differ, by Congress' design, from those applicable to generic drug manufacturers. And different federal statutes and regulations may, as here, lead to different pre-emption results. This Court will not distort the Supremacy Clause in order to create similar pre-emption across a dissimilar statutory scheme. Congress and the FDA retain authority to change the law and regulations if they so desire. Pp. 17-20.     Thomas, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, except as to Part III-B-2. Roberts, C. J., and Scalia and Alito, JJ., joined that opinion in full, and Kennedy, J., joined as to all but Part III-B-2. Sotomayor, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Ginsburg, Breyer, and Kagan, JJ., joined.PLIVA, INC., et al., PETITIONERS09-993     v.GLADYS MENSINGACTAVIS ELIZABETH, LLC, PETITIONER09-1039     v.GLADYS MENSINGACTAVIS, INC., PETITIONER09-1501     v.JULIE DEMAHYon writs of certiorari to the united states courts of appeals for the eighth and fifth circuits[June 23, 2011]     Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court, ex-cept as to Part III-B-2.**     These consolidated lawsuits involve state tort-law claims based on certain drug manufacturers' alleged failure to provide adequate warning labels for generic metoclopramide. The question presented is whether federal drug regulations applicable to generic drug manufacturers directly conflict with, and thus pre-empt, these state-law claims. We hold that they do.I     Metoclopramide is a drug designed to speed the movement of food through the digestive system. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) first approved metoclopramide tablets, under the brand name Reglan, in 1980. Five years later, generic manufacturers also began producing meto-clopramide. The drug is commonly used to treat digestive tract problems such as diabetic gastroparesis and gastroesophageal reflux disorder.     Evidence has accumulated that long-term metoclopramide use can cause tardive dyskinesia, a severe neurological disorder. Studies have shown that up to 29% of patients who take metoclopramide for several years develop this condition. McNeil v. Wyeth, 462 F. 3d 364, 370, n. 5 (CA5 2006); see also Shaffer, Butterfield, Pamer, & Mackey, Tardive Dyskinesia Risks and Metoclopramide Use Before and After U. S. Market Withdrawal of Cisapride, 44 J. Am. Pharmacists Assn. 661, 663 (2004) (noting 87 cases of metoclopramide-related tardive dyskinesia reported to the FDA's adverse event reporting system by mid-2003).     Accordingly, warning labels for the drug have been strengthened and clarified several times. In 1985, the label was modified to warn that "tardive dyskinesia ... may develop in patients treated with metoclopramide," and the drug's package insert added that "[t]herapy longer than 12 weeks has not been evaluated and cannot be recommended." Physician's Desk Reference 1635-1636 (41st ed. 1987); see also Brief for Petitioner PLIVA et al. 21-22 (hereinafter PLIVA Brief). In 2004, the brand-name Reglan manufacturer requested, and the FDA approved, a label change to add that "[t]herapy should not exceed 12 weeks in duration." Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 8 (hereinafter U. S. Brief). And in 2009, the FDA ordered a black box warning--its strongest--which states: "Treatment with metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia, a serious movement disorder that is often irreversible... . Treatment with metoclopramide for longer than 12 weeks should be avoided in all but rare cases." See Physician's Desk Reference 2902 (65th ed. 2011).     Gladys Mensing and Julie Demahy, the plaintiffs in these consolidated cases, were prescribed Reglan in 2001 and 2002, respectively. Both received generic metoclopramide from their pharmacists. After taking the drug as prescribed for several years, both women developed tardive dyskinesia.     In separate suits, Mensing and Demahy sued the generic drug manufacturers that produced the metoclopramide they took (Manufacturers). Each alleged, as relevant here, that long-term metoclopramide use caused her tar-dive dyskinesia and that the Manufacturers were liable under state tort law (specifically, that of Minnesota and Louisiana) for failing to provide adequate warning labels. They claimed that "despite mounting evidence that long term metoclopramide use carries a risk of tardive dyskinesia far greater than that indicated on the label," none of the Manufacturers had changed their labels to adequately warn of that danger. Mensing v. Wyeth, Inc., 588 F. 3d 603, 605 (CA8 2009); see also Demahy v. Actavis, Inc., 593 F. 3d 428, 430 (CA5 2010).     In both suits, the Manufacturers urged that federal law pre-empted the state tort claims. According to the Manufacturers, federal statutes and FDA regulations required them to use the same safety and efficacy labeling as their brand-name counterparts. This means, they argued, that it was impossible to simultaneously comply with both federal law and any state tort-law duty that required them to use a different label.     The Courts of Appeals for the Fifth and Eighth Circuits rejected the Manufacturers' arguments and held that Men-sing and Demahy's claims were not pre-empted. See 588 F. 3d, at 614; 593 F. 3d, at 449. We granted certiorari, 562 U. S. ___ (2010), consolidated the cases, and now reverse each.II     Pre-emption analysis requires us to compare federal and state law. We therefore begin by identifying the state tort duties and federal labeling requirements applicable to the Manufacturers.A     It is undisputed that Minnesota and Louisiana tort law require a drug manufacturer that is or should be aware of its product's danger to label that product in a way that renders it reasonably safe. Under Minnesota law, which applies to Mensing's lawsuit, "where the manufacturer ... of a product has actual or constructive knowledge of danger to users, the ... manufacturer has a duty to give warning of such dangers." Frey v. Montgomery Ward & Co., 258 N. W. 2d 782, 788 (Minn. 1977). Similarly, under Louisiana law applicable to Demahy's lawsuit, "a manufacturer's duty to warn includes a duty to provide adequate instructions for safe use of a product." Stahl v. Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp., 283 F. 3d 254, 269-270 (CA5 2002); see also La. Rev. Stat. Ann. §9:2800.57 (West 2009). In both States, a duty to warn falls specifically on the manufacturer. See Marks v. OHMEDA, Inc., 2003-1446, pp. 8-9 (La. App. 3/31/04), 871 So. 2d 1148, 1155; Gray v. Badger Min. Corp., 676 N. W. 2d 268, 274 (Minn. 2004).     Mensing and Demahy have pleaded that the Manufacturers knew or should have known of the high risk of tardive dyskinesia inherent in the long-term use of their product. They have also pleaded that the Manufacturers knew or should have known that their labels did not adequately warn of that risk. App. 437-438, 67-69, 94-96. The parties do not dispute that, if these allegations are true, state law required the Manufacturers to use a different, safer label.B     Federal law imposes far more complex drug labeling requirements. We begin with what is not in dispute. Under the 1962 Drug Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 76 Stat. 780, 21 U. S. C. §301 et seq., a manufacturer seeking federal approval to market a new drug must prove that it is safe and effective and that the proposed label is accurate and adequate.1 See, e.g., 21 U. S. C. §§355(b)(1), (d); Wyeth v. Levine, 555 U. S. 555, 567 (2009). Meeting those requirements involves costly and lengthy clinical testing. §§355(b)(1)(A), (d); see also D. Beers, Generic and Innovator Drugs: A Guide to FDA Approval Requirements §2.02[A] (7th ed. 2008).     Originally, the same rules applied to all drugs. In 1984, however, Congress passed the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act, 98 Stat. 1585, commonly called the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. Under this law, "generic drugs" can gain FDA approval simply by showing equivalence to a reference listed drug that has already been approved by the FDA.2 21 U. S. C. §355(j)(2)(A). This allows manufacturers to develop generic drugs in-expensively, without duplicating the clinical trials already performed on the equivalent brand-name drug. A generic drug application must also "show that the [safety and efficacy] labeling proposed ... is the same as the labeling approved for the [brand-name] drug." §355(j)(2)(A)(v); see also §355(j)(4)(G); Beers §§3.01, 3.03[A].     As a result, brand-name and generic drug manufacturers have different federal drug labeling duties. A brand-name manufacturer seeking new drug approval is responsible for the accuracy and adequacy of its label. See, e.g., 21 U. S. C. §§355(b)(1), (d); Wyeth, supra, at 570-571. A manufacturer seeking generic drug approval, on the other hand, is responsible for ensuring that its warning label is the same as the brand name's. See, e.g., §355(j)(2)(A)(v); §355(j)(4)(G); 21 CFR §§314.94(a)(8), 314.127(a)(7).     The parties do not disagree. What is in dispute is whether, and to what extent, generic manufacturers may change their labels after initial FDA approval. Mensing and Demahy contend that federal law provided several avenues through which the Manufacturers could have altered their metoclopramide labels in time to prevent the injuries here. The FDA, however, tells us that it interprets its regulations to require that the warning labels of a brand-name drug and its generic copy must always be the same--thus, generic drug manufacturers have an ongoing federal duty of "sameness." U. S. Brief 16; see also 57 Fed. Reg. 17961 (1992) ("[T]he [generic drug's] labeling must be the same as the listed drug product's labeling because the listed drug product is the basis for [generic drug] ap-proval"). The FDA's views are "controlling unless plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation[s]" or there is any other reason to doubt that they reflect the FDA's fair and considered judgment. Auer v. Robbins, 519 U. S. 452, 461, 462 (1997) (internal quotation marks omitted).31     First, Mensing and Demahy urge that the FDA's "changes-being-effected" (CBE) process allowed the Manufacturers to change their labels when necessary. See Brief for Respondents 33-35; see also 593 F. 3d, at 439-444; Gaeta v. Perrigo Pharmaceuticals Co., 630 F. 3d 1225, 1231 (CA9 2011); Foster v. American Home Prods. Corp., 29 F. 3d 165, 170 (CA4 1994). The CBE process permits drug manufacturers to "add or strengthen a contraindication, warning, [or] precaution," 21 CFR §314.70(c)(6)(iii)(A) (2006), or to "add or strengthen an instruction about dosage and administration that is intended to increase the safe use of the drug product," §314.70(c)(6)(iii)(C). When making labeling changes using the CBE process, drug man-ufacturers need not wait for preapproval by the FDA, which ordinarily is necessary to change a label. Wyeth, supra, at 568. They need only simultaneously file a supplemental application with the FDA. 21 CFR §314.70(c)(6).     The FDA denies that the Manufacturers could have used the CBE process to unilaterally strengthen their warning labels. The agency interprets the CBE regulation to allow changes to generic drug labels only when a generic drug manufacturer changes its label to match an updated brand-name label or to follow the FDA's instructions. U. S. Brief 15, 16, n. 7 (interpreting 21 CFR §314.94(a)(8)(iv)); U. S. Brief 16, n. 8. The FDA argues that CBE changes unilaterally made to strengthen a generic drug's warning label would violate the statutes and regulations requiring a generic drug's label to match its brand-name counterpart's. Id., at 15-16; see also 21 U. S. C. §355(j)(4)(G); 21 CFR §§314.94(a)(8)(iii), 314.150(b)(10) (approval may be withdrawn if the generic drug's label "is no longer consistent with that for [the brand-name]").     We defer to the FDA's interpretation of its CBE and generic labeling regulations. Although Mensing and Demahy offer other ways to interpret the regulations, see Brief for Respondents 33-35, we do not find the agency's interpretation "plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation." Auer, supra, at 461 (internal quotation marks omitted). Nor do Mensing and Demahy suggest there is any other reason to doubt the agency's reading. We therefore conclude that the CBE process was not open to the Manufacturers for the sort of change required by state law.2     Next, Mensing and Demahy contend that the Manufacturers could have used "Dear Doctor" letters to send ad-ditional warnings to prescribing physicians and other healthcare professionals. See Brief for Respondents 36; 21 CFR §200.5. Again, the FDA disagrees, and we defer to the agency's views.     The FDA argues that Dear Doctor letters qualify as "labeling." U. S. Brief 18; see also 21 U. S. C. §321(m); 21 CFR §202.1(l)(2). Thus, any such letters must be "consistent with and not contrary to [the drug's] approved ... labeling." 21 CFR §201.100(d)(1). A Dear Doctor letter that contained substantial new warning information would not be consistent with the drug's approved labeling. Moreover, if generic drug manufacturers, but not the brand-name manufacturer, sent such letters, that would inaccurately imply a therapeutic difference between the brand and generic drugs and thus could be impermissibly "misleading." U. S. Brief 19; see 21 CFR §314.150(b)(3) (FDA may withdraw approval of a generic drug if "the labeling of the drug ... is false or misleading in any particular").     As with the CBE regulation, we defer to the FDA. Mensing and Demahy offer no argument that the FDA's interpretation is plainly erroneous. See Auer, 519 U. S., at 461. Accordingly, we conclude that federal law did not permit the Manufacturers to issue additional warnings through Dear Doctor letters.3     Though the FDA denies that the Manufacturers could have used the CBE process or Dear Doctor letters to strengthen their warning labels, the agency asserts that a different avenue existed for changing generic drug labels. According to the FDA, the Manufacturers could have proposed--indeed, were required to propose--stronger warning labels to the agency if they believed such warnings were needed. U. S. Brief 20; 57 Fed. Reg. 17961. If the FDA had agreed that a label change was necessary, it would have worked with the brand-name manufacturer to create a new label for both the brand-name and generic drug. Ibid.     The agency traces this duty to 21 U. S. C. §352(f)(2), which provides that a drug is "misbranded ... [u]nless its labeling bears ... adequate warnings against ... unsafe dosage or methods or duration of administration or application, in such manner and form, as are necessary for the protection of users." See U. S. Brief 12. By regulation, the FDA has interpreted that statute to require that "labeling shall be revised to include a warning as soon as there is reasonable evidence of an association of a serious hazard with a drug." 21 CFR §201.57(e).     According to the FDA, these requirements apply to ge-neric drugs. As it explains, a " 'central premise of federal drug regulation is that the manufacturer bears responsibility for the content of its label at all times.' " U. S. Brief 12-13 (quoting Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 570-571). The FDA reconciles this duty to have adequate and accurate labeling with the duty of sameness in the following way: Generic drug manufacturers that become aware of safety problems must ask the agency to work toward strengthening the label that applies to both the generic and brand-name equivalent drug. U. S. Brief 20.     The Manufacturers and the FDA disagree over whether this alleged duty to request a strengthened label actually existed. The FDA argues that it explained this duty in the preamble to its 1992 regulations implementing the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. Ibid.; see 57 Fed. Reg. 17961 ("If a [generic drug manufacturer] believes new safety information should be added to a product's labeling, it should contact FDA, and FDA will determine whether the labeling for the generic and listed drugs should be revised"). The Manufacturers claim that the FDA's 19-year-old statement did not create a duty, and that there is no evi-dence of any generic drug manufacturer ever acting pursuant to any such duty. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 19-24; Reply Brief for Petitioner PLIVA et al. 18-22. Because we ultimately find pre-emption even assuming such a duty existed, we do not resolve the matter.C     To summarize, the relevant state and federal requirements are these: State tort law places a duty directly on all drug manufacturers to adequately and safely label their products. Taking Mensing and Demahy's allegations as true, this duty required the Manufacturers to use a different, stronger label than the label they actually used. Federal drug regulations, as interpreted by the FDA, prevented the Manufacturers from independently changing their generic drugs' safety labels. But, we assume, federal law also required the Manufacturers to ask for FDA assistance in convincing the brand-name manufacturer to adopt a stronger label, so that all corresponding generic drug manufacturers could do so as well. We turn now to the question of pre-emption.III     The Supremacy Clause establishes that federal law "shall be the supreme Law of the Land ... any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding." U. S. Const., Art. VI, cl. 2. Where state and federal law "directly conflict," state law must give way. Wyeth, supra, at 583 (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment); see also Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council, 530 U. S. 363, 372 (2000) ("[S]tate law is naturally preempted to the extent of any conflict with a federal statute"). We have held that state and federal law conflict where it is "impossible for a private party to comply with both state and federal requirements."4 Freightliner Corp. v. Myrick, 514 U. S. 280, 287 (1995) (internal quotation marks omitted).5A     We find impossibility here. It was not lawful under federal law for the Manufacturers to do what state law required of them. And even if they had fulfilled their federal duty to ask for FDA assistance, they would not have satisfied the requirements of state law.     If the Manufacturers had independently changed their labels to satisfy their state-law duty, they would have violated federal law. Taking Mensing and Demahy's allegations as true, state law imposed on the Manufac-turers a duty to attach a safer label to their generic metoclopramide. Federal law, however, demanded that ge-neric drug labels be the same at all times as the corres-ponding brand-name drug labels. See, e.g., 21 CFR §314.150(b)(10). Thus, it was impossible for the Manufacturers to comply with both their state-law duty to change the label and their federal law duty to keep the label the same.     The federal duty to ask the FDA for help in strengthening the corresponding brand-name label, assuming such a duty exists, does not change this analysis. Although requesting FDA assistance would have satisfied the Man-ufacturers' federal duty, it would not have satisfied their state tort-law duty to provide adequate labeling. State law demanded a safer label; it did not instruct the Manufacturers to communicate with the FDA about the possibility of a safer label. Indeed, Mensing and Demahy deny that their state tort claims are based on the Manufacturers' alleged failure to ask the FDA for assistance in changing the labels. Brief for Respondents 53-54; cf. Buckman Co. v. Plaintiffs' Legal Comm., 531 U. S. 341 (2001) (holding that federal drug and medical device laws pre-empted a state tort-law claim based on failure to properly communicate with the FDA).B1     Mensing and Demahy contend that, while their state-law claims do not turn on whether the Manufacturers asked the FDA for assistance in changing their labels, the Manufacturers' federal affirmative defense of pre-emption does. Mensing and Demahy argue that if the Manufacturers had asked the FDA for help in changing the corresponding brand-name label, they might eventually have been able to accomplish under federal law what state law requires. That is true enough. The Manufacturers "freely concede" that they could have asked the FDA for help. PLIVA Brief 48. If they had done so, and if the FDA decided there was sufficient supporting information, and if the FDA undertook negotiations with the brand-name manufacturer, and if adequate label changes were decided on and implemented, then the Manufacturers would have started a Mouse Trap game that eventually led to a better label on generic metoclopramide.     This raises the novel question whether conflict pre-emption should take into account these possible actions by the FDA and the brand-name manufacturer. Here, what federal law permitted the Manufacturers to do could have changed, even absent a change in the law itself, depending on the actions of the FDA and the brand-name manufacturer. Federal law does not dictate the text of each generic drug's label, but rather ties those labels to their brand-name counterparts. Thus, federal law would permit the Manufacturers to comply with the state labeling requirements if, and only if, the FDA and the brand-name manufacturer changed the brand-name label to do so.     Mensing and Demahy assert that when a private party's ability to comply with state law depends on approval and assistance from the FDA, proving pre-emption requires that party to demonstrate that the FDA would not have allowed compliance with state law. Here, they argue, the Manufacturers cannot bear their burden of proving impossibility because they did not even try to start the process that might ultimately have allowed them to use a safer label. Brief for Respondents 47. This is a fair argument, but we reject it.     The question for "impossibility" is whether the private party could independently do under federal law what state law requires of it. See Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 573 (finding no pre-emption where the defendant could "unilaterally" do what state law required). Accepting Mensing and Demahy's argument would render conflict pre-emption largely meaningless because it would make most conflicts between state and federal law illusory. We can often imagine that a third party or the Federal Government might do something that makes it lawful for a private party to accomplish under federal law what state law requires of it. In these cases, it is certainly possible that, had the Manufacturers asked the FDA for help, they might have eventually been able to strengthen their warning label. Of course, it is also possible that the Manufacturers could have convinced the FDA to reinterpret its regulations in a manner that would have opened the CBE process to them. Following Mensing and Demahy's argument to its logical conclusion, it is also possible that, by asking, the Manufacturers could have persuaded the FDA to rewrite its generic drug regulations entirely or talked Congress into amending the Hatch-Waxman Amendments.     If these conjectures suffice to prevent federal and state law from conflicting for Supremacy Clause purposes, it is unclear when, outside of express pre-emption, the Supremacy Clause would have any force.6 We do not read the Supremacy Clause to permit an approach to pre-emption that renders conflict pre-emption all but meaningless. The Supremacy Clause, on its face, makes federal law "the supreme Law of the Land" even absent an express statement by Congress. U. S. Const., Art. VI, cl. 2.2     Moreover, the text of the Clause--that federal law shall be supreme, "any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding"--plainly contemplates conflict pre-emption by describing federal law as effectively repealing contrary state law. Ibid.; see Nelson, Preemption, 86 Va. L. Rev. 225, 234 (2000); id., at 252-253 (describing discussion of the Supremacy Clause in state ratification debates as concerning whether federal law could repeal state law, or vice versa). The phrase "any [state law] to the Contrary notwithstanding" is a non ob-stante provision. Id., at 238-240, nn. 43-45. Eighteenth-century legislatures used non obstante provisions to specify the degree to which a new statute was meant to repeal older, potentially conflicting statutes in the same field. Id., at 238-240 (citing dozens of statutes from the 1770's and 1780's with similar provisions). A non obstante provision "in a new statute acknowledged that the statute might contradict prior law and instructed courts not to apply the general presumption against implied repeals." Id., at 241-242; 4 M. Bacon, A New Abridgment of the Law 639 (4th ed. 1778) ("Although two Acts of Parliament are seemingly repugnant, yet if there be no Clause of non Obstante in the latter, they shall if possible have such Construction, that the latter may not be a Repeal of the former by Implication"). The non obstante provision in the Supremacy Clause therefore suggests that federal law should be understood to impliedly repeal conflicting state law.     Further, the provision suggests that courts should not strain to find ways to reconcile federal law with seemingly conflicting state law. Traditionally, courts went to great lengths attempting to harmonize conflicting statutes, in order to avoid implied repeals. Warder v. Arell, 2 Va. 282, 296 (1796) (opinion of Roane, J.) ("[W]e ought to seek for such a construction as will reconcile [the statutes] together"); Ludlow's Heirs v. Johnston, 3 Ohio 553, 564 (1828) ("[I]f by any fair course of reasoning the two [statutes] can be reconciled, both shall stand"); Doolittle v. Bryan, 14 How. 563, 566 (1853) (requiring "the repugnance be quite plain" before finding implied repeal). A non obstante provision thus was a useful way for legislatures to specify that they did not want courts distorting the new law to accommodate the old. Nelson, supra, at 240-242; see also J. Sutherland, Statutes and Statutory Construction §147, p. 199 (1891) ("[W]hen there is inserted in a statute a provision [of non obstante] ... . It is to be supposed that courts will be less inclined against recognizing repugnancy in applying such statutes"); Weston's Case, 73 Eng. Rep. 780, 781 (K. B. 1576) ("[W]hen there are two statutes, one in appearance crossing the other, and no clause of non obstante is contained in the second statute ... the exposition ought to be that both should stand in force"); G. Jacob, A New Law Dictionary (J. Morgan ed., 10th ed. 1782) (definition of "statute," ¶6: "[W]hen there is a seeming variance between two statutes, and no clause of non obstante in the latter, such construction shall be made that both may stand"). The non obstante provision of he Supremacy Clause indicates that a court need look no further than "the ordinary meanin[g]" of federal law, and should not distort federal law to accommodate conflicting state law. Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 588 (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (internal quotation marks omitted).     To consider in our pre-emption analysis the contingencies inherent in these cases--in which the Manufacturers' ability to comply with state law depended on uncertain federal agency and third-party decisions--would be inconsistent with the non obstante provision of the Supremacy Clause. The Manufacturers would be required continually to prove the counterfactual conduct of the FDA and brand-name manufacturer in order to establish the supremacy of federal law. We do not think the Supremacy Clause contemplates that sort of contingent supremacy. The non obstante provision suggests that pre-emption analysis should not involve speculation about ways in which federal agency and third-party actions could potentially reconcile federal duties with conflicting state duties. When the "ordinary meaning" of federal law blocks a private party from independently accomplishing what state law requires, that party has established pre-emption.3     To be sure, whether a private party can act sufficiently independently under federal law to do what state law requires may sometimes be difficult to determine. But this is not such a case. Before the Manufacturers could satisfy state law, the FDA--a federal agency--had to undertake special effort permitting them to do so. To decide these cases, it is enough to hold that when a party cannot satisfy its state duties without the Federal Government's special permission and assistance, which is dependent on the exercise of judgment by a federal agency, that party cannot independently satisfy those state duties for pre-emption purposes.     Here, state law imposed a duty on the Manufacturers to take a certain action, and federal law barred them from taking that action. The only action the Manufacturers could independently take--asking for the FDA's help--is not a matter of state-law concern. Mensing and Demahy's tort claims are pre-empted.C     Wyeth is not to the contrary. In that case, as here, the plaintiff contended that a drug manufacturer had breached a state tort-law duty to provide an adequate warning label. 555 U. S., at 559-560. The Court held that the lawsuit was not pre-empted because it was possible for Wyeth, a brand-name drug manufacturer, to comply with both state and federal law. Id., at 572-573.7 Specifically, the CBE regulation, 21 CFR §314.70(c)(6)(iii), permitted a brand-name drug manufacturer like Wyeth "to unilaterally strengthen its warning" without prior FDA approval. 555 U. S., at 573; cf. supra, at 7-8. Thus, the federal regulations applicable to Wyeth allowed the company, of its own volition, to strengthen its label in compliance with its state tort duty.8     We recognize that from the perspective of Mensing and Demahy, finding pre-emption here but not in Wyeth makes little sense. Had Mensing and Demahy taken Reglan, the brand-name drug prescribed by their doctors, Wyeth would control and their lawsuits would not be pre-empted. But because pharmacists, acting in full accord with state law, substituted generic metoclopramide instead, federal law pre-empts these lawsuits. See, e.g., Minn. Stat. §151.21 (2010) (describing when pharmacists may substitute ge-neric drugs); La. Rev. Stat. Ann. §37:1241(A)(17) (West 2007) (same). We acknowledge the unfortunate hand that federal drug regulation has dealt Mensing, Demahy, and others similarly situated.9     But "it is not this Court's task to decide whether the statutory scheme established by Congress is unusual or even bizarre." Cuomo v. Clearing House Assn., L. L. C., 557 U. S. ___, ___ (2009) (Thomas, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) (slip op., at 21) (internal quotation marks and brackets omitted). It is beyond dispute that the federal statutes and regulations that apply to brand-name drug manufacturers are meaningfully different than those that apply to generic drug manufacturers. Indeed, it is the special, and different, regulation of generic drugs that allowed the generic drug market to expand, bringing more drugs more quickly and cheaply to the public. But different federal statutes and regulations may, as here, lead to different pre-emption results. We will not distort the Supremacy Clause in order to create similar pre-emption across a dissimilar statutory scheme. As always, Congress and the FDA retain the authority to change the law and regulations if they so desire.*??*??*     The judgments of the Fifth and Eighth Circuits are reversed, and the cases are remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.PLIVA, INC., et al., PETITIONERS09-993     v.GLADYS MENSINGACTAVIS ELIZABETH, LLC, PETITIONER09-1039     v.GLADYS MENSINGACTAVIS, INC., PETITIONER09-1501     v.JULIE DEMAHYon writs of certiorari to the united states courts of appeals for the eighth and fifth circuits[June 23, 2011]     Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Ginsburg, Justice Breyer, and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.     The Court today invokes the doctrine of impossibility pre-emption to hold that federal law immunizes generic-drug manufacturers from all state-law failure-to-warn claims because they cannot unilaterally change their la-bels. I cannot agree. We have traditionally held defendants claiming impossibility to a demanding standard: Until today, the mere possibility of impossibility had not been enough to establish pre-emption.     The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) permits--and, the Court assumes, requires--generic-drug manufacturers to propose a label change to the FDA when they believe that their labels are inadequate. If it agrees that the labels are inadequate, the FDA can initiate a change to the brand-name label, triggering a corresponding change to the generic labels. Once that occurs, a generic manufacturer is in full compliance with both federal law and a state-law duty to warn. Although generic manufacturers may be able to show impossibility in some cases, petitioners, generic manufacturers of metoclopramide (Manufacturers), have shown only that they might have been unable to comply with both federal law and their state-law duties to warn respondents Gladys Mensing and Julie Demahy. This, I would hold, is insufficient to sustain their burden.     The Court strains to reach the opposite conclusion. It invents new principles of pre-emption law out of thin air to justify its dilution of the impossibility standard. It effectively rewrites our decision in Wyeth v. Levine, 555 U. S. 555 (2009), which holds that federal law does not pre-empt failure-to-warn claims against brand-name drug manufacturers. And a plurality of the Court tosses aside our repeated admonition that courts should hesitate to conclude that Congress intended to pre-empt state laws governing health and safety. As a result of today's decision, whether a consumer harmed by inadequate warnings can obtain relief turns solely on the happenstance of whether her pharmacist filled her prescription with a brand-name or generic drug. The Court gets one thing right: This outcome "makes little sense." Ante, at 18.IA      Today's decision affects 75 percent of all prescription drugs dispensed in this country. The dominant position of generic drugs in the prescription drug market is the result of a series of legislative measures, both federal and state.     In 1984, Congress enacted the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act, 98 Stat. 1585--commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA)--to "make available more low cost generic drugs by establishing a generic drug approval procedure," H. R. Rep. No. 98-857, pt. 1, p. 14 (1984). As the majority explains, to accomplish this goal the amendments establish an abbreviated application process for generic drugs. Ante, at 5-6; see also 21 U. S. C. §355(j)(2)(A). The abbreviated approval process implements the amendments' core principle that generic and brand-name drugs must be the "same" in nearly all respects: To obtain FDA approval, a generic manufacturer must ordinarily show, among other things, that its product has the same active ingredients as an approved brand-name drug; that "the route of adminis-tration, the dosage form, and the strength of the new drug are the same" as the brand-name drug; and that its product is "bioequivalent" to the brand-name drug. §§355(j)(2)(A)(ii), (iii), (iv). By eliminating the need for generic manufacturers to prove their drugs' safety and efficacy independently, the Hatch-Waxman Amendments allow generic manufacturers to bring drugs to market much less expensively.     The States have also acted to expand consumption of low-cost generic drugs. In the years leading up to passage of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, States enacted legislation authorizing pharmacists to substitute generic drugs when filling prescriptions for brand-name drugs. Christensen, Kirking, Ascione, Welage, & Gaither, Drug Product Selection: Legal Issues, 41 J. Am. Pharmaceutical Assn. 868, 869 (2001). Currently, all States have some form of generic substitution law. See ibid. Some States require generic substitution in certain circumstances. Dept. of Health and Human Servs., ASPE Issue Brief: Expanding the Use of Generic Drugs 7 (2010) (hereinafter Expanding the Use of Generic Drugs);1 see, e.g., N. Y. Educ. Law Ann. §6816-a (West 2010). Others permit, but do not require, substitution. Expanding the Use of Generic Drugs 7; see, e.g., Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code Ann. §4073 (West Supp. 2011). Some States require patient consent to substitution, and all States "allow the physician to specify that the brand name must be prescribed, although with different levels of effort from the physician." Expanding the Use of Generic Drugs 7.2     These legislative efforts to expand production and consumption of generic drugs have proved wildly successful. It is estimated that in 1984, when the Hatch-Waxman Amendments were enacted, generic drugs constituted 19 percent of drugs sold in this country. Congressional Bud-get Office, How Increased Competition from Generic Drugs Has Affected Prices and Returns in the Pharmaceutical Industry 27 (1998).3 Today, they dominate the market. See Expanding the Use of Generic Drugs 2 (generic drugs constituted 75 percent of all dispensed prescription drugs in 2009). Ninety percent of drugs for which a generic version is available are now filled with generics. Id., at 3-4. In many cases, once generic versions of a drug enter the market, the brand-name manufacturer stops selling the brand-name drug altogether. See Brief for Marc T. Law et al. as Amici Curiae 18 (citing studies showing that anywhere from one-third to one-half of generic drugs no longer have a marketed brand-name equivalent). Reflecting the success of their products, many generic manufacturers, including the Manufacturers and their amici, are huge, multinational companies. In total, generic drug manufacturers sold an estimated $66 billion of drugs in this country in 2009. See id., at 15.B     As noted, to obtain FDA approval a generic manufacturer must generally show that its drug is the same as an approved brand-name drug. It need not conduct clinical trials to prove the safety and efficacy of the drug. This does not mean, however, that a generic manufacturer has no duty under federal law to ensure the safety of its products. The FDA has limited resources to conduct postapproval monitoring of drug safety. See Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 578. Manufacturers, we have recognized, "have superior access to information about their drugs, especially in the postmarketing phase as new risks emerge." Id., at 578-579. Federal law thus obliges drug manufacturers--both brand-name and generic--to monitor the safety of their products.     Under federal law, generic manufacturers must "develop written procedures for the surveillance, receipt, evaluation, and reporting of postmarketing adverse drug experiences" to the FDA.4 21 CFR §314.80(b);5 see also §314.98 (making §314.80 applicable to generic manufacturers); Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 6, and n. 2 (hereinafter U. S. Brief). They must review all reports of adverse drug experiences received from "any source." §314.80(b). If a manufacturer receives a report of a serious and unexpected adverse drug experience, it must re-port the event to the FDA within 15 days and must "promptly investigate." §§314.80(c)(1)(i)-(ii); see also Tr. of Oral Arg. 8. Most other adverse drug experiences must be reported on a quarterly or yearly basis.6 §314.80(c)(2). Generic manufacturers must also submit to the FDA an annual report summarizing "significant new information from the previous year that might affect the safety, ef-fectiveness, or labeling of the drug product," including a "description of actions the [manufacturer] has taken or intends to take as a result of this new information." §314.81(b)(2)(i); see also §314.98(c).     Generic manufacturers, the majority assumes, also bear responsibility under federal law for monitoring the adequacy of their warnings. I agree with the majority's conclusion that generic manufacturers are not permitted unilaterally to change their labels through the "changes-being-effected" (CBE) process or to issue additional warnings through "Dear Doctor" letters. See ante, at 6-9. According to the FDA, however, that generic manufacturers cannot disseminate additional warnings on their own does not mean that federal law permits them to remain idle when they conclude that their labeling is inadequate. FDA regulations require that labeling "be revised to include a warning as soon as there is reasonable evidence of an association of a serious hazard with a drug." 21 CFR §201.57(e) (2006), currently codified at 21 CFR §201.80(e) (2010); see also Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 570-571. The FDA construes this regulation to oblige generic manufacturers "to seek to revise their labeling and provide FDA with supporting information about risks" when they believe that additional warnings are necessary.7 U. S. Brief 20.     The Manufacturers disagree. They read the FDA regulation to require them only to ensure that their labels match the brand-name labels. See Brief for Petitioner PLIVA et al. 38-41. I need not decide whether the regulation in fact obliges generic manufacturers to approach the FDA to propose a label change. The majority assumes that it does. And even if generic manufacturers do not have a duty to propose label changes, two points remain undisputed. First, they do have a duty under federal law to monitor the safety of their products. And, second, they may approach the FDA to propose a label change when they believe a change is required.II     This brings me to the Manufacturers' pre-emption defense. State law obliged the Manufacturers to warn of dangers to users. See Hines v. Remington Arms Co., 94-0455, p. 10 (La. 12/8/94), 648 So. 2d 331, 337; Frey v. Montgomery Ward & Co., 258 N. W. 2d 782, 788 (Minn. 1977). The Manufacturers contend, and the majority agrees, that federal law pre-empts respondents' failure-to-warn claims because, under federal law, the Manufac-turers could not have provided additional warnings to respondents without the exercise of judgment by the FDA. I cannot endorse this novel conception of impossibility pre-emption.A     Two principles guide all pre-emption analysis. First, " 'the purpose of Congress is the ultimate touchstone in every pre-emption case.' " Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 565 (quoting Medtronic, Inc. v. Lohr, 518 U. S. 470, 485 (1996)). Second, " '[i]n all pre-emption cases, and particularly in those in which Congress has legislated . . . in a field which the States have traditionally occupied, . . . we start with the assumption that the historic police powers of the States were not to be superseded by the Federal Act unless that was the clear and manifest purpose of Congress.' " Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 565 (quoting Lohr, 518 U. S., at 485; some internal quotation marks omitted; alterations in original).     These principles find particular resonance in these cases. The States have traditionally regulated health and safety matters. See id., at 485. Notwithstanding Congress' "certain awareness of the prevalence of state tort litigation" against drug manufacturers, Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 575, Congress has not expressly pre-empted state-law tort actions against prescription drug manufacturers, whether brand-name or generic. To the contrary, when Congress amended the FDCA in 1962 to "enlarg[e] the FDA's powers to 'protect the public health' and 'assure the safety, effectiveness, and reliability of drugs,' [it] took care to preserve state law." Id., at 567 (quoting 76 Stat. 780); see Pub. L. 87-781, §202, 76 Stat. 793 ("Nothing in the amendments made by this Act to the [FDCA] shall be construed as invalidating any provision of State law which would be valid in the absence of such amendments unless there is a direct and positive conflict between such amendments and such provision of State law"). Notably, although Congress enacted an express pre-emption provision for medical devices in 1976, see Pub. L. 94-295, §521, 90 Stat. 574, 21 U. S. C. §360k(a), it included no such provision in the Hatch-Waxman Amendments eight years later. Cf. Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 567, 574-575. Congress' "silence on the issue . . . is powerful evidence that [it] did not intend FDA oversight to be the exclusive means of ensuring drug safety and effectiveness." Id., at 575.B     Federal law impliedly pre-empts state law when state and federal law "conflict"--i.e., when "it is impossible for a private party to comply with both state and federal law" or when state law "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress." Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council, 530 U. S. 363, 372-373 (2000) (internal quotation marks omitted). The Manufacturers rely solely on the former ground of pre-emption.     Impossibility pre-emption, we have emphasized, "is a de-manding defense." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 573. Because pre-emption is an affirmative defense, a defendant seeking to set aside state law bears the burden to prove impossibility. See ibid.; Silkwood v. Kerr-McGee Corp., 464 U. S. 238, 255 (1984). To prevail on this defense, a defendant must demonstrate that "compliance with both federal and state [law] is a physical impossibility." Florida Lime & Avocado Growers, Inc. v. Paul, 373 U. S. 132, 142-143 (1963); see also Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 573. In other words, there must be an "inevitable collision" between federal and state law. Florida Lime, 373 U. S., at 143. "The existence of a hypothetical or potential conflict is insufficient to warrant" pre-emption of state law. Rice v. Norman Williams Co., 458 U. S. 654, 659 (1982); see also Gade v. National Solid Wastes Management Assn., 505 U. S. 88, 110 (1992) (Kennedy, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment). In other words, the mere possibility of impossibility is not enough.     The Manufacturers contend that it was impossible for them to provide additional warnings to respondents Men-sing and Demahy because federal law prohibited them from changing their labels unilaterally.8 They concede, however, that they could have asked the FDA to initiate a label change. If the FDA agreed that a label change was required, it could have asked, and indeed pressured, the brand-name manufacturer to change its label, triggering a corresponding change to the Manufacturers' generic la-bels.9 Thus, had the Manufacturers invoked the available mechanism for initiating label changes, they may well have been able to change their labels in sufficient time to warn respondents. Having failed to do so, the Manufacturers cannot sustain their burden (at least not without further factual development) to demonstrate that it was impossible for them to comply with both federal and state law. At most, they have demonstrated only "a hypothetical or potential conflict." Rice, 458 U. S., at 659.     Like the majority, the Manufacturers focus on the fact that they cannot change their labels unilaterally--which distinguishes them from the brand-name-manufacturer defendant in Wyeth. They correctly point out that in Wyeth we concluded that the FDA's CBE regulation authorized the defendant to strengthen its warnings before receiving agency approval of its supplemental application describing the label change. 555 U. S., at 568-571; see also 21 CFR §314.70(c)(6). But the defendant's label change was contingent on FDA acceptance, as the FDA retained "authority to reject labeling changes made pursuant to the CBE regulation." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 571. Thus, in the long run, a brand-name manufacturer's compliance with a state-law duty to warn required action by two actors: The brand-name manufacturer had to change the label and the FDA, upon reviewing the supplemental application, had to agree with the change.10 The need for FDA approval of the label change did not make compliance with federal and state law impossible in every case. Instead, because the defendant bore the burden to show impossibility, we required it to produce "clear evidence that the FDA would not have approved a change to [the] label." Ibid.     I would apply the same approach in these cases. State law, respondents allege, required the Manufacturers to provide a strengthened warning about the dangers of long-term metoclopramide use.11 Just like the brand-name manufacturer in Wyeth, the Manufacturers had available to them a mechanism for attempting to comply with their state-law duty to warn. Federal law thus "accommodated" the Manufacturers' state-law duties. See ante, at 18, n. 8. It was not necessarily impossible for the Manufacturers to comply with both federal and state law because, had they approached the FDA, the FDA may well have agreed that a label change was necessary. Accordingly, as in Wyeth, I would require the Manufacturers to show that the FDA would not have approved a proposed label change. They have not made such a showing: They do "not argue that [they] attempted to give the kind of warning required by [state law] but [were] prohibited from doing so by the FDA." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 572.     This is not to say that generic manufacturers could never show impossibility. If a generic-manufacturer defendant proposed a label change to the FDA but the FDA rejected the proposal, it would be impossible for that defendant to comply with a state-law duty to warn. Likewise, impossibility would be established if the FDA had not yet responded to a generic manufacturer's request for a label change at the time a plaintiff's injuries arose. A generic manufacturer might also show that the FDA had itself considered whether to request enhanced warnings in light of the evidence on which a plaintiff's claim rests but had decided to leave the warnings as is. (The Manufacturers make just such an argument in these cases. See, e.g., Brief for Petitioner Actavis et al. 11.) But these are questions of fact to be established through discovery. Because the burden of proving impossibility falls on the defendant, I would hold that federal law does not render it impossible for generic manufacturers to comply with a state-law duty to warn as a categorical matter.     This conclusion flows naturally from the overarching prin-ciples governing our pre-emption doctrine. See supra, at 8. Our "respect for the States as 'independent sovereigns in our federal system' leads us to assume that 'Congress does not cavalierly pre-empt state-law causes of action.' " Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 565-566, n. 3 (quoting Lohr, 518 U. S., at 485). It is for this reason that we hold defendants asserting impossibility to a "demanding" standard. Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 573. This presumption against pre-emption has particular force when the Federal Government has afforded defendants a mechanism for complying with state law, even when that mechanism requires federal agency action. (The presumption has even greater force when federal law requires defendants to invoke that mechanism, as the majority assumes in these cases.) In such circumstances, I would hold, defendants will usually be unable to sustain their burden of showing impossibility if they have not even attempted to employ that mechanism. Any other approach threatens to infringe the States' authority over traditional matters of state interest--such as the failure-to-warn claims here--when Congress expressed no intent to pre-empt state law.C     The majority concedes that the Manufacturers might have been able to accomplish under federal law what state law requires. Ante, at 12-13. To reach the conclusion that the Manufacturers have nonetheless satisfied their bur-den to show impossibility, the majority invents a new pre-emption rule: "The question for 'impossibility' is whether the private party could independently do under federal law what state law requires of it." Ante, at 13 (emphasis added). Because the Manufacturers could not have changed their labels without the exercise of judgment by the FDA, the majority holds, compliance with both state and federal law was impossible in these cases.12     The majority's new test has no basis in our precedents. The majority cites only Wyeth in support of its test. As discussed above, however, Wyeth does not stand for the proposition that it is impossible to comply with both federal and state law whenever federal agency approval is required. To the contrary, label changes by brand-name manufacturers such as Wyeth are subject to FDA review and acceptance. See supra, at 11-12. And, even if Wyeth could be characterized as turning on the fact that the brand-name manufacturer could change its label unilaterally, the possibility of unilateral action was, at most, a sufficient condition for rejecting the impossibility defense in that case. Wyeth did not hold that unilateral action is a necessary condition in every case.     With so little support in our case law, the majority un-derstandably turns to other rationales. None of the rationales that it offers, however, makes any sense. First, it offers a reductio ad absurdum: If the possibility of FDA approval of a label change is sufficient to avoid conflict in these cases, it warns, as a "logical conclusion" so too would be the possibility that the FDA might rewrite its regulations or that Congress might amend the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. Ante, at 14. The logic of this conclusion escapes me. Conflict analysis necessarily turns on existing law. It thus would be ridiculous to conclude that federal and state law do not conflict on the ground that the defendant could have asked a federal agency or Congress to change the law. Here, by contrast, the Manufacturers' compliance with their state-law duty to warn did not re-quire them to ask for a change in federal law, as the majority itself recognizes. See ante, at 13 ("[F]ederal law would permit the Manufacturers to comply with the state labeling requirements if, and only if, the FDA and the brand-name manufacturer changed the brand-name label to do so"). The FDA already afforded them a mechanism for attempting to comply with their state-law duties. Indeed, the majority assumes that FDA regulations required the Manufacturers to request a label change when they had "reasonable evidence of an association of a serious hazard with a drug." 21 CFR §201.57(e).     Second, the majority suggests that any other approach would render conflict pre-emption "illusory" and "meaning-less." Ante, at 14. It expresses concern that, without a robust view of what constitutes conflict, the Supremacy Clause would not have "any force" except in cases of express pre-emption. Ibid. To the extent the majority's purported concern is driven by its reductio ad absurdum, see ante, at 14, n. 6, that concern is itself illusory, for the reasons just stated. To the extent the majority is concerned that our traditionally narrow view of what constitutes impossibility somehow renders conflict pre-emption as a whole meaningless, that concern simply makes no sense: We have repeatedly recognized that conflict pre-emption may be found, even absent impossibility, where state law "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress." Crosby, 530 U. S., at 373 (internal quotation marks omitted); see, e.g., Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861, 886 (2000); Barnett Bank of Marion Cty., N. A. v. Nelson, 517 U. S. 25, 31 (1996); Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941). The majority's expansive view of impossibility is thus unnecessary to prevent conflict pre-emption from losing all meaning.13     Third, a plurality of the Court adopts the novel theory that the Framers intended for the Supremacy Clause to operate as a so-called non obstante provision. See ante, at 15-17 (citing Nelson, Preemption, 86 Va. L. Rev. 225 (2000)). According to the plurality, non obstante provisions in statutes "instruc[t] courts not to apply the general presumption against implied repeals." Ante, at 15 (internal quotation marks omitted); see also ante, at 16 (stating that when a statute contains a non obstante provision, " 'courts will be less inclined against recognizing repugnancy in applying such statutes' " (quoting J. Sutherland, Statutes and Statutory Construction §147, p. 199 (1891)). From this understanding of the Supremacy Clause, the plurality extrapolates the principle that "courts should not strain to find ways to reconcile federal law with seemingly conflicting state law." Ante, at 15.     This principle would have been news to the Congress that enacted the Hatch-Waxman Amendments in 1984: Our precedents hold just the opposite. For more than half a century, we have directed courts to presume that congressional action does not supersede "the historic police powers of the States . . . unless that was the clear and manifest purpose of Congress." Rice v. Santa Fe Elevator Corp., 331 U. S. 218, 230 (1947); see also Gade, 505 U. S., at 111-112 (Kennedy, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment). We apply this presumption against pre-emption both where Congress has spoken to the pre-emption question and where it has not. See Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 566, n. 3. In the context of express pre-emption, we read federal statutes whenever possible not to pre-empt state law. See Altria Group, Inc. v. Good, 555 U. S. 70, 77 (2008) ("[W]hen the text of a pre-emption clause is susceptible of more than one plausible reading, courts ordinarily 'accept the reading that disfavors pre-emption' " (quoting Bates v. Dow Agrosciences LLC, 544 U. S. 431, 449 (2005))); see also Cipollone v. Liggett Group, Inc., 505 U. S. 504, 518 (1992). And, when the claim is that federal law impliedly pre-empts state law, we require a "strong" showing of a conflict "to overcome the presumption that state and local regulation . . . can constitutionally coexist with federal regulation." Hillsborough County v. Automated Medical Laboratories, Inc., 471 U. S. 707, 716 (1985).     The plurality's new theory of the Supremacy Clause is a direct assault on these precedents.14 Whereas we have long presumed that federal law does not pre-empt, or repeal, state law, the plurality today reads the Supremacy Clause to operate as a provision instructing courts "not to apply the general presumption against implied repeals." Ante, at 15 (internal quotation marks omitted; emphasis added). And whereas we have long required evidence of a "clear and manifest" purpose to pre-empt, Rice, 331 U. S., at 230, the plurality now instructs courts to "look no further than the ordinary meaning of federal law" before concluding that Congress must have intended to cast aside state law, ante, at 16 (internal quotation marks and alteration omitted).     That the plurality finds it necessary to resort to this novel theory of the Supremacy Clause--a theory advocated by no party or amici in these cases--is telling. Proper application of the longstanding presumption against pre-emption compels the conclusion that federal law does not render compliance with state law impossible merely because it requires an actor to seek federal agency approval. When federal law provides actors with a mech-anism for attempting to comply with their state-law duties, "respect for the States as 'independent sovereigns in our federal system' " should require those actors to attempt to comply with state law before being heard to complain that compliance with both laws was impossible. Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 565-566, n. 3 (quoting Lohr, 518 U. S., at 485).III     Today's decision leads to so many absurd consequences that I cannot fathom that Congress would have intended to pre-empt state law in these cases.     First, the majority's pre-emption analysis strips generic-drug consumers of compensation when they are injured by inadequate warnings. "If Congress had intended to deprive injured parties of [this] long available form of compensation, it surely would have expressed that intent more clearly." Bates, 544 U. S., at 449. Given the longstanding existence of product liability actions, including for failure to warn, "[i]t is difficult to believe that Congress would, without comment, remove all means of judicial recourse for those injured by illegal conduct." Silkwood, 464 U. S., at 251; see also Bruesewitz v. Wyeth LLC, 562 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 16) (noting our previously expressed "doubt that Congress would quietly preempt product-liability claims without providing a federal substitute"). In concluding that Congress silently immunized generic manufacturers from all failure-to-warn claims, the majority disregards our previous hesitance to infer congressional intent to effect such a sweeping change in traditional state-law remedies.     As the majority itself admits, a drug consumer's right to compensation for inadequate warnings now turns on the happenstance of whether her pharmacist filled her pre-scription with a brand-name drug or a generic. If a consumer takes a brand-name drug, she can sue the manufacturer for inadequate warnings under our opinion in Wyeth. If, however, she takes a generic drug, as occurs 75 percent of the time, she now has no right to sue. The majority offers no reason to think--apart from its new articulation of the impossibility standard--that Congress would have intended such an arbitrary distinction. In some States, pharmacists must dispense generic drugs absent instruction to the contrary from a consumer's physician. Even when consumers can request brand-name drugs, the price of the brand-name drug or the consumers' insurance plans may make it impossible to do so. As a result, in many cases, consumers will have no ability to preserve their state-law right to recover for injuries caused by inadequate warnings.     Second, the majority's decision creates a gap in the parallel federal-state regulatory scheme in a way that could have troubling consequences for drug safety. As we explained in Wyeth, "[s]tate tort suits uncover unknown drug hazards and provide incentives for drug manufacturers to disclose safety risks promptly." 555 U. S., at 579. Thus, we recognized, "state law offers an additional, and important, layer of consumer protection that complements FDA regulation." Ibid. Today's decision eliminates the traditional state-law incentives for generic manufacturers to monitor and disclose safety risks. When a generic drug has a brand-name equivalent on the market, the brand-name manufacturer will remain incentivized to uncover safety risks. But brand-name manufacturers often leave the market once generic versions are available, see supra, at 4-5, meaning that there will be no manufacturer subject to failure-to-warn liability. As to those generic drugs, there will be no "additional . . . layer of consumer protection." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 579.     Finally, today's decision undoes the core principle of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments that generic and brand-name drugs are the "same" in nearly all respects.15 See Brief for Rep. Henry A. Waxman as Amicus Curiae 9. The majority pins the expansion of the generic drug market on "the special, and different, regulation of generic drugs," which allows generic manufacturers to produce their drugs more cheaply. Ante, at 19. This tells only half the story. The expansion of the market for generic drugs has also flowed from the increased acceptance of, and trust in, generic drugs by consumers, physicians, and state legislators alike.     Today's decision introduces a critical distinction between brand-name and generic drugs. Consumers of brand-name drugs can sue manufacturers for inadequate warnings; consumers of generic drugs cannot. These divergent liability rules threaten to reduce consumer demand for generics, at least among consumers who can afford brand-name drugs. They may pose "an ethical dilemma" for prescribing physicians. Brief for American Medical Association et al. as Amici Curiae 29. And they may well cause the States to rethink their longstanding efforts to promote generic use through generic substitution laws. See Brief for National Conference of State Legislators as Amicus Curiae 15 (state generic substitution laws "have proceeded on the premise that . . . generic drugs are not, from citizens' perspective, materially different from brand ones, except for the lower price"). These consequences are directly at odds with the Hatch-Waxman Amendments' goal of increasing consumption of generic drugs.     Nothing in the Court's opinion convinces me that, in enacting the requirement that generic labels match their corresponding brand-name labels, Congress intended these absurd results. The Court certainly has not shown that such was the "clear and manifest purpose of Congress." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 565 (internal quotation marks omitted; emphasis added). To the contrary, because federal law affords generic manufacturers a mechanism for attempting to comply with their state-law duties to warn, I would hold that federal law does not categorically pre-empt state-law failure-to-warn claims against generic manufacturers. Especially in light of the presumption against pre-emption, the burden should fall on generic manufacturers to show that compliance was impossible on the particular facts of their case. By holding that the "possibility of possibility" is insufficient to "defea[t]" pre-emption in these cases, ante, at 18, n. 8, the Court contorts our pre-emption doctrine and exempts defendants from their burden to establish impossibility. With respect, I dissent.FOOTNOTESThe Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (BAPCPA) amended the Bankruptcy Code to define a class of bankruptcy professionals termed "debt relief agenc[ies]." 11 U. S. C. §101(12A). That class includes, with limited exceptions, "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person ... for ... payment ... , or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." Ibid. The BAPCPA prohibits such professionals from "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt in contemplation of [filing for bankruptcy] ... ." §526(a)(4). It also requires them to disclose in their advertisements for certain services that the services are with respect to or may involve bankruptcy relief, §§528(a)(3), (b)(2)(A), and to identify themselves as debt relief agencies, §§528(a)(4), (b)(2)(B).          The plaintiffs in this litigation--a law firm and others (collectively Milavetz)--filed a preenforcement suit seeking declaratory relief, arguing that Milavetz is not bound by the BAPCPA's debt-relief-agency provisions and therefore can freely advise clients to incur additional debt and need not make the requisite disclosures in its advertisements. The District Court found that "debt relief agency" does not include attorneys and that §§526 and 528 are unconstitutional as applied to that class of professionals. The Eighth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part, rejecting the District Court's conclusion that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]"; upholding application of §528's disclosure requirements to attorneys; and finding §526(a)(4) unconstitutional because it broadly prohibits debt relief agencies from advising assisted persons to incur any additional debt in contemplation of bankruptcy even when the advice constitutes prudent prebankruptcy planning.Held:     1. Attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are debt relief agencies under the BAPCPA. By definition, "bankruptcy assistance" includes several services commonly performed by attorneys, e.g., providing "advice, counsel, [or] document preparation," §101(4A). Moreover, in enumerating specific exceptions to the debt-relief-agency definition, Congress indicated no intent to exclude attorneys. See §§101(12A)(A)-(E). Milavetz relies on the fact that §101(12A) does not expressly include attorneys in advocating a narrower understanding. On that reading, only a bankruptcy petition preparer would qualify--an implausibility given that a "debt relief agency" is "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance ... or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer," ibid. Milavetz's other arguments for excluding attorneys are also unpersuasive. Pp. 5-9.     2. Section 526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising a debtor to incur more debt because the debtor is filing for bankruptcy, rather than for a valid purpose. The statute's language, together with its purpose, makes a narrow reading of §526(a)(4) the natural one. Conrad, Rubin & Lesser v. Pender, 289 U. S. 472, supports this conclusion. The Court in that case read now-repealed §96(d), which authorized reexamination of a debtor's attorney's fees payment "in contemplation of the filing of a petition," to require that the portended bankruptcy have "induce[d]" the transfer at issue, id., at 477, understanding inducement to engender suspicion of abuse. The Court identified the "controlling question" as "whether the thought of bankruptcy was the impelling cause of the transaction," ibid. Given the substantial similarities between §§96(d) and 526(a)(4), the controlling question under the latter is likewise whether the impelling reason for "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt" was the prospect of filing for bankruptcy. In practice, advice impelled by the prospect of filing will generally consist of advice to "load up" on debt with the expectation of obtaining its discharge. The statutory context supports the conclusion that §526(a)(4)'s prohibition primarily targets this type of conduct. The Court rejects Milavetz's arguments for a more expansive view of §526(a)(4) and its claim that the provision, narrowly construed, is impermissibly vague. Pp. 9-18.     3. Section 528's disclosure requirements are valid as applied to Milavetz. Consistent with Milavetz's characterization, the Court presumes that this is an as-applied challenge. Because §528 is directed at misleading commercial speech and imposes only a disclosure requirement rather than an affirmative limitation on speech, the less exacting scrutiny set out in Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626, governs. There, the Court found that, while unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements offend the First Amendment, "an advertiser's rights are adequately protected as long as disclosure requirements are reasonably related to the State's interest in preventing deception of consumers." Id., at 651. Section 528's requirements share the essential features of the rule challenged in Zauderer. The disclosures are intended to combat the problem of inherently misleading commercial advertisements, and they entail only an accurate statement of the advertiser's legal status and the character of the assistance provided. Moreover, they do not prevent debt relief agencies from conveying any additional information through their advertisements. In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191, distinguished. Because §528's requirements are "reasonably related" to the Government's interest in preventing consumer deception, the Court upholds those provisions as applied to Milavetz. Pp. 18-23.541 F. 3d 785, affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.     Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Stevens, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, and Alito, JJ., joined, in which Scalia, J., joined except for n. 3, and in which Thomas, J., joined except for Part III-C. Scalia, J., and Thomas, J., filed opinions concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.     Congress enacted the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (BAPCPA or Act) to correct perceived abuses of the bankruptcy system. Among the reform measures the Act implemented are a number of provisions that regulate the conduct of "debt relief agenc[ies]"--i.e., professionals who provide bankruptcy assistance to consumer debtors. See 11 U. S. C. §§101(3), (12A). These consolidated cases present the threshold question whether attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services. Because we agree with the Court of Appeals that they are, we must also consider whether the Act's provisions governing debt relief agencies' advice to clients, §526(a)(4), and requiring them to make certain disclosures in their advertisements, §§528(a) and (b)(2), violate the First Amendment rights of attorneys. Concluding that the Court of Appeals construed §526(a)(4) too expansively, we reverse its judgment that the provision is unconstitutionally overbroad. Like the Court of Appeals, we uphold §528's disclosure requirements as applied in these consolidated cases.I     In order to improve bankruptcy law and practice, Congress enacted through the BAPCPA a number of provisions directed at the conduct of bankruptcy professionals. Some of these measures apply to the broad class of bankruptcy professionals termed "debt relief agenc[ies]." That category includes, with limited exceptions, "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person in return for ... payment ... , or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." §101(12A).1 "Bankruptcy assistance" refers to goods or services "provided to an assisted person with the express or implied purpose of providing information, advice, counsel, document preparation, or filing, or attendance at a creditors' meeting or appearing in a case or proceeding on behalf of another or providing legal representation with respect to a case or proceeding" in bankruptcy. §101(4A). An "assisted person" is someone with limited nonexempt property whose debts consist primarily of consumer debts. §101(3). The BAPCPA subjects debt relief agencies to a number of restrictions and requirements, as set forth in §§526, 527, and 528. As relevant here, §526(a) establishes several rules of professional conduct for persons qualifying as debt relief agencies. Among them, §526(a)(4) states that a debt relief agency shall not "advise an assisted person ... to incur more debt in contemplation of such person filing a case under this title or to pay an attorney or bankruptcy petition preparer fee or charge for services performed as part of preparing for or representing a debtor in a case under this title."     Section 528 requires qualifying professionals to include certain disclosures in their advertisements. Subsection (a) provides that debt relief agencies must "clearly and conspicuously disclose in any advertisement of bankruptcy assistance services or of the benefits of bankruptcy directed to the general public ... that the services or benefits are with respect to bankruptcy relief under this title." §528(a)(3). It also requires them to include the following, "or a substantially similar statement": "We are a debt relief agency. We help people file for bankruptcy relief under the Bankruptcy Code." §528(a)(4). Subsection (b) requires essentially the same disclosures in advertisements "indicating that the debt relief agency provides assistance with respect to credit defaults, mortgage foreclosures, eviction proceedings, excessive debt, debt collection pressure, or inability to pay any consumer debt." §528(b)(2). Debt relief agencies advertising such services must disclose "that the assistance may involve bankruptcy relief," §528(b)(2)(A), and must identify themselves as "debt relief agenc[ies]" as required by §528(a)(4), see §528(b)(2)(B).II     The plaintiffs in this litigation--the law firm Milavetz, Gallop & Milavetz, P. A.; the firm's president, Robert J. Milavetz; a bankruptcy attorney at the firm, Barbara Nilva Nevin; and two of the firm's clients (collectively Milavetz)--filed a preenforcement suit in Federal District Court seeking declaratory relief with respect to the Act's debt-relief-agency provisions. Milavetz asked the court to hold that it is not bound by these provisions and thus may freely advise clients to incur additional debt and need not identify itself as a debt relief agency in its advertisements.     Milavetz first argued that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]" as that term is used in the BAPCPA. In the alternative, Milavetz sought a judgment that §§526(a)(4) and 528(a)(4) and (b)(2) are unconstitutional as applied to attorneys. The District Court agreed with Milavetz that the term "debt relief agency" does not include attorneys, App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 08-1119, p. A-15, but only after finding that §§526 and 528--provisions expressly applicable only to debt relief agencies--are unconstitutional as applied to this class of professionals.     The Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part. 541 F. 3d 785 (2008). Relying on the Act's plain language, the court unanimously rejected the District Court's conclusion that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]" within the meaning of the Act. The Court of Appeals also parted ways with the District Court concerning the constitutionality of §528. Concluding that the disclosures are intended to prevent consumer deception and are "reasonably related" to that interest, the court upheld the application of §528's disclosure requirements to attorneys. Id., at 796-797 (citing Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626, 651 (1985)).     A majority of the Eighth Circuit panel, however, agreed with the District Court that §526(a)(4) is invalid. Determining that §526(a)(4) "broadly prohibits a debt relief agency from advising an assisted person ... to incur any additional debt when the assisted person is contemplating bankruptcy," even when that advice constitutes prudent prebankruptcy planning not intended to abuse the bankruptcy laws, 541 F. 3d, at 793, the majority held that §526(a)(4) could not withstand either strict or intermediate scrutiny. In dissent, Judge Colloton argued that §526(a)(4) should be read narrowly to prevent only advice to abuse the bankruptcy system, noting that this construction would avoid most constitutional difficulties. See id., at 799 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part).     In light of a conflict among the Courts of Appeals,2 we granted certiorari to resolve the question of §526(a)(4)'s scope. 556 U. S. ___ (2009). We also agreed to consider the threshold question whether attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are "debt relief agenc[ies]" within the meaning of §101(12A) and the related question whether §528's disclosure requirements are constitutional.IIIA     We first consider whether the term "debt relief agency" includes attorneys. If it does not, we need not reach the other questions presented, as §§526 and 528 govern only the conduct of debt relief agencies, and Milavetz challenges the validity of those provisions based on their application to attorneys. The Government contends that "debt relief agency" plainly includes attorneys, while Milavetz urges that it does not. We conclude that the Government has the better view.     As already noted, a debt relief agency is "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person" in return for payment. §101(12A). By definition, "bankruptcy assistance" includes several services commonly performed by attorneys. Indeed, some forms of bankruptcy assistance, including the "provi[sion of] legal representation with respect to a case or proceeding," §101(4A), may be provided only by attorneys. See §110(e)(2) (prohibiting bankruptcy petition preparers from providing legal advice). Moreover, in enumerating specific exceptions to the definition of debt relief agency, Congress gave no indication that it intended to exclude attorneys. See §§101(12A)(A)-(E). Thus, as the Government contends, the statutory text clearly indicates that attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services to assisted persons.3     In advocating a narrower understanding of that term, Milavetz relies heavily on the fact that §101(12A) does not expressly include attorneys. That omission stands in contrast, it argues, to the provision's explicit inclusion of "bankruptcy petition preparer[s]"--a category of professionals that excludes attorneys and their staff, see §110(a)(1). But Milavetz does not contend, nor could it credibly, that only professionals expressly included in the definition are debt relief agencies. On that reading, no professional other than a bankruptcy petition preparer would qualify--an implausible reading given that the statute defines "debt relief agency" as "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person ... or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." §101(12A) (emphasis added). The provision's silence regarding attorneys thus avails Milavetz little. Cf. Heintz v. Jenkins, 514 U. S. 291, 294 (1995) (holding that "debt collector" as used in the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, 15 U. S. C. §1692a(6), includes attorneys notwithstanding the definition's lack of an express reference to lawyers or litigation).     Milavetz's other arguments for excluding attorneys similarly fail to persuade us to disregard the statute's plain language. Milavetz contends that 11 U. S. C. §526(d)(2)'s instruction that §§526, 527, and 528 should not "be deemed to limit or curtail" States' authority to "determine and enforce qualifications for the practice of law" counsels against reading "debt relief agency" to include attorneys, as the surest way to protect the States' role in regulating the legal profession is to make the BAPCPA's professional conduct rules inapplicable to lawyers. We find that §526(d)(2) supports the opposite conclusion, as Congress would have had no reason to enact that provision if the debt-relief-agency provisions did not apply to attorneys. Milavetz's broader claim that reading §101(12A) to include attorneys impermissibly trenches on an area of traditional state regulation also lacks merit. Congress and the bankruptcy courts have long overseen aspects of attorney conduct in this area of substantial federal concern. See, e.g., Conrad, Rubin & Lesser v. Pender, 289 U. S. 472, 477-479 (1933) (finding broad authorization in former §96(d) (1934 ed.) (repealed 1978) for courts to examine the reasonableness of a debtor's prepetition attorney's fees).     Milavetz next argues that §101(12A)'s exception for any "officer, director, employee, or agent of a person who provides" bankruptcy assistance is revealing for its failure to include "partners." §101(12A)(A). In light of that omission, it contends, treating attorneys as debt relief agencies will obligate entire law firms to comply with §§526, 527, and 528 based on the conduct of a single partner, while the agents and employees of debt relief agencies not typically organized as partnerships are shielded from those requirements. Given that the partnership structure is not unique to law firms, however, it is unclear why the exclusion would be revealing of Congress' intent only with respect to attorneys. In any event, partnerships are themselves "person[s]" under the BAPCPA, see §101(41), and can qualify as "debt relief agenc[ies]" when they meet the criteria set forth in §101(12A). Moreover, a partnership's employees and agents are exempted from §101(12A) in the same way as the employees and agents of other organizations. To the extent that partners may be subject to the debt-relief-agency provisions by association, that result is consistent with the joint responsibilities that typically flow from the partnership structure, cf. Strang v. Bradner, 114 U. S. 555, 561 (1885). Accordingly, we decline to attribute the significance Milavetz suggests to §101(12A)(A)'s failure to include partners among the exempted actors.4     All else failing, Milavetz urges that the canon of constitutional avoidance requires us to read "debt relief agency" to exclude attorneys in order to forestall serious doubts as to the validity of §§526 and 528. The avoidance canon, however, "is a tool for choosing between competing plausible interpretations of a statutory text." Clark v. Martinez, 543 U. S. 371, 381 (2005). In applying that tool, we will consider only those constructions of a statute that are " 'fairly possible.' " United States v. Security Industrial Bank, 459 U. S. 70, 78 (1982). For the reasons already discussed, the text and statutory context of §101(12A) foreclose a reading of "debt relief agency" that excludes attorneys. Accordingly, we hold that attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are debt relief agencies within the meaning of the BAPCPA.B     Having concluded that attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services, we next address the scope and validity of §526(a)(4). Characterizing the statute as a broad, content-based restriction on attorney-client communications that is not adequately tailored to constrain only speech the Government has a substantial interest in restricting, the Eighth Circuit found the rule substantially overbroad. 541 F. 3d, at 793-794, and n. 10. For the reasons that follow, we reject that conclusion.     Section 526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency from "advis[ing] an assisted person" either "to incur more debt in contemplation of" filing for bankruptcy "or to pay an attorney or bankruptcy petition preparer fee or charge for services" performed in preparation for filing. Only the first of these prohibitions is at issue. In debating the correctness of the Court of Appeals' decision, the parties first dispute the provision's scope. The Court of Appeals concluded that "§526(a)(4) broadly prohibits a debt relief agency from advising an assisted person ... to incur any additional debt when the assisted person is contemplating bankruptcy." Id., at 793. Under that reading, an attorney is prohibited from providing all manner of "beneficial advice--even if the advice could help the assisted person avoid filing for bankruptcy altogether." Ibid.     Agreeing with the Court of Appeals, Milavetz contends that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency from advising a client to incur any new debt while considering whether to file for bankruptcy. Construing the provision more broadly still, Milavetz contends that §526(a)(4) forbids not only affirmative advice but also any discussion of the advantages, disadvantages, or legality of incurring more debt. Like the panel majority's, Milavetz's reading rests primarily on its view that the ordinary meaning of the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy encompasses any advice given to a debtor with the awareness that he might soon file for bankruptcy, even if the advice seeks to obviate the need to file. Milavetz also maintains that if §526(a)(4) were construed more narrowly, as urged by the Government and the dissent below, it would be so vague as to inevitably chill some protected speech.     The Government continues to advocate a narrower construction of the statute, urging that Milavetz's reading is untenable and that its vagueness concerns are misplaced. The Government contends that §526(a)(4)'s restriction on advice to incur more debt "in contemplation of" bankruptcy is most naturally read to forbid only advice to undertake actions to abuse the bankruptcy system. Focusing first on the provision's text, the Government points to sources indicating that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy has long been, and continues to be, associated with abusive conduct. For instance, Black's Law Dictionary 336 (8th ed. 2004) (hereinafter Black's) defines "contemplation of bankruptcy" as "[t]he thought of declaring bankruptcy because of the inability to continue current financial operations, often coupled with action designed to thwart the distribution of assets in a bankruptcy proceeding." Use of the phrase by Members of Congress illustrates that traditional coupling. See, e.g., S. Rep. No. 98-65, p. 9 (1983) (discussing the practice of " 'loading up' [on debt] in contemplation of bankruptcy"); Report of the Commission on the Bankruptcy Laws of the United States, H. R. Doc. No. 93-137, pt. I, p. 11 (1973) ("[T]he most serious abuse of consumer bankruptcy is the number of instances in which individuals have purchased a sizable quantity of goods and services on credit on the eve of bankruptcy in contemplation of obtaining a discharge"). The Government also points to early American and English judicial decisions to corroborate its contention that "in contemplation of" bankruptcy signifies abusive conduct. See, e.g., In re Pearce, 19 F. Cas. 50, 53 (No. 10,873) (D. Vt. 1843); Morgan v. Brundrett, 5 B. Ad. 288, 296-297, 110 Eng. Rep. 798, 801 (K. B. 1833) (Parke, J.).     To bolster its textual claim, the Government relies on §526(a)(4)'s immediate context. According to the Government, the other three subsections of §526(a) are designed to protect debtors from abusive practices by debt relief agencies: §526(a)(1) requires debt relief agencies to perform all promised services; §526(a)(2) prohibits them from making or advising debtors to make false or misleading statements in bankruptcy; and §526(a)(3) prohibits them from misleading debtors regarding the costs or benefits of bankruptcy. When §526(a)(4) is read in context of these debtor-protective provisions, the Government argues, construing it to prevent debt relief agencies from giving advice that is beneficial to both debtors and their creditors seems particularly nonsensical.     Finally, the Government contends that the BAPCPA's remedies for violations of §526(a)(4) similarly corroborate its narrow reading. Section 526(c) provides remedies for a debt relief agency's violation of §526, §527, or §528. Among the actions authorized, a debtor may sue the attorney for remittal of fees, actual damages, and reasonable attorney's fees and costs; a state attorney general may sue for a resident's actual damages; and a court finding intentional abuse may impose an appropriate civil penalty. §526(c). The Government also relies on the Fifth Circuit's decision in Hersh v. United States ex rel. Mukasey, 553 F. 3d 743 (2008), and Judge Colloton's dissent below for the observation that "Congress's emphasis on actual damages for violations of section 526(a)(4) strongly suggests that Congress viewed that section as aimed at advice to debtors which if followed would have a significant risk of harming the debtor." Id., at 760; see 541 F. 3d, at 800 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part). By contrast, "legal and appropriate advice that would be protected by the First Amendment, yet prohibited by a broad reading of §526(a)(4), should cause no damage at all." Ibid.; see Hersh, 541 F. 3d, at 760.     Milavetz contends that the Government's sources actually undermine its claim that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy necessarily refers to abusive conduct. Specifically, Milavetz argues that these authorities illustrate that "in contemplation of" bankruptcy is a neutral phrase that only implies abusive conduct when attached to an additional, proscriptive term. As Black's states, the phrase is "often coupled with action designed to thwart the distribution of assets" in bankruptcy, Black's 336 (emphasis added), but it carries no independent connotation of abuse. In support of that conclusion, Milavetz relies on our decision in Pender, 289 U. S. 472, contending that we construed "in contemplation of" bankruptcy in that case to describe "conduct with a view to a probable bankruptcy filing and nothing more." Brief for Milavetz 61.     After reviewing these competing claims, we are persuaded that a narrower reading of §526(a)(4) is sounder, although we do not adopt precisely the view the Government advocates. The Government's sources show that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy has so commonly been associated with abusive conduct that it may readily be understood to prefigure abuse. As used in §526(a)(4), however, we think the phrase refers to a specific type of misconduct designed to manipulate the protections of the bankruptcy system. In light of our decision in Pender, and in context of other sections of the Code, we conclude that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising a debtor to incur more debt because the debtor is filing for bankruptcy, rather than for a valid purpose.     Pender addressed the meaning of former §96(d), which authorized reexamination of a debtor's payment of attorney's fees "in contemplation of the filing of a petition." Recognizing " 'the temptation of a failing debtor to deal too liberally with his property in enabling counsel to protect him,' " 289 U. S., at 478 (quoting In re Wood & Henderson, 210 U. S. 246, 253 (1908)), we read "in contemplation of ... filing" in that context to require that the portended bankruptcy have "induce[d]" the transfer at issue, 289 U. S., at 477, understanding inducement to engender suspicion of abuse. In so construing the statute, we identified the "controlling question" as "whether the thought of bankruptcy was the impelling cause of the transaction." Ibid. Given the substantial similarities between §§96(d) and 526(a)(4), we think the controlling question under the latter provision is likewise whether the impelling reason for "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt" was the prospect of filing for bankruptcy.     To be sure, there are relevant differences between the provision at issue in Pender and the one now under review. Most notably, the inquiry in Pender was as to payments made on the eve of bankruptcy, whereas §526(a)(4) regards advice to incur additional debts. Consistent with that difference, under §96(d) a finding that a payment was made "in contemplation of" filing resolved only a threshold inquiry triggering further review of the reasonableness of the payment; the finding thus supported an inference of abuse but did not conclusively establish it. By contrast, advice to incur more debt because of bankruptcy, as prohibited by §526(a)(4), will generally consist of advice to "load up" on debt with the expectation of obtaining its discharge--i.e., conduct that is abusive per se.     The statutory context supports the conclusion that §526(a)(4)'s prohibition primarily targets this type of abuse. Code provisions predating the BAPCPA already sought to prevent the practice of loading up on debt prior to filing. Section 523(a)(2), for instance, addressed the attendant risk of manipulation by preventing the discharge of debts obtained by false pretenses and making debts for purchases of luxury goods or services presumptively nondischargeable. See §§523(a)(2)(A) and (C) (2000 ed.). The BAPCPA increased the risk of such abuse, however, by providing a new mechanism for determining a debtor's ability to repay. Pursuant to the "means tes[t]," §707(b)(2)(D) (2006 ed.), a debtor's petition for Chapter 7 relief is presumed abusive (and may therefore be dismissed or converted to a structured repayment plan under Chapter 13) if the debtor's current monthly income exceeds his statutorily allowed expenses, including payments for secured debt, by more than a prescribed amount. See §§707(b)(2)(A)(i)-(iv). The test promotes debtor accountability but also enhances incentives to incur additional debt prior to filing, as payments on secured debts offset a debtor's monthly income under the formula. Other amendments effected by the BAPCPA reflect a concern with this practice. For instance, Congress amended §523(a)(2) to expand the exceptions to discharge by lowering the threshold amount of new debt a debtor must assume to trigger the presumption of abuse under §523(a)(2)(C), and it extended the relevant prefiling window. See §310, 119 Stat. 84. In context, §526(a)(4) is best understood to provide an additional safeguard against the practice of loading up on debt prior to filing.     The Government's contextual arguments provide additional support for the view that §526(a)(4) was meant to prevent this type of conduct. The companion rules of professional conduct in §§526(a)(1)-(3) and the remedies for their violation in §526(c) indicate that Congress was concerned with actions that threaten to harm debtors or creditors. Unlike the reasonable financial advice the Eighth Circuit's broad reading would proscribe, advice to incur more debt because of bankruptcy presents a substantial risk of injury to both debtors and creditors. See Hersh, 553 F. 3d, at 760-761. Specifically, the incurrence of such debt stands to harm a debtor if his prepetition conduct leads a court to hold his debts nondischargable, see §523(a)(2), convert his case to another chapter, or dismiss it altogether, see §707(b), thereby defeating his effort to obtain bankruptcy relief. If a debt, although manipulatively incurred, is not timely identified as abusive and therefore is discharged, creditors will suffer harm as a result of the discharge and the consequent dilution of the bankruptcy estate. By contrast, the prudent advice that the Eighth Circuit's view of the statute forbids would likely benefit both debtors and creditors and at the very least should cause no harm. See id., at 760; 541 F. 3d, at 800 (Colloton, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). For all of these reasons, we conclude that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising an assisted person to incur more debt when the impelling reason for the advice is the anticipation of bankruptcy.     That "[n]o other solution yields as sensible a" result further persuades us of the correctness of this narrow reading. United States v. Granderson, 511 U. S. 39, 55 (1994). It would make scant sense to prevent attorneys and other debt relief agencies from advising individuals thinking of filing for bankruptcy about options that would be beneficial to both those individuals and their creditors. That construction serves none of the purposes of the Bankruptcy Code or the amendments enacted through the BAPCPA. Milavetz itself acknowledges that its expansive view of §526(a)(4) would produce absurd results; that is one of its bases for arguing that "debt relief agency" should be construed to exclude attorneys. Because the language and context of §526(a)(4) evidence a more targeted purpose, we can avoid the absurdity of which Milavetz complains without reaching the result it advocates.     For the same reason, we reject Milavetz's suggestion that §526(a)(4) broadly prohibits debt relief agencies from discussing covered subjects instead of merely proscribing affirmative advice to undertake a particular action. Section 526(a)(4) by its terms prevents debt relief agencies only from "advis[ing]" assisted persons "to incur" more debt. Covered professionals remain free to "tal[k] fully and candidly about the incurrence of debt in contemplation of filing a bankruptcy case." Brief for Milavetz 73. Section 526(a)(4) requires professionals only to avoid instructing or encouraging assisted persons to take on more debt in that circumstance. Cf. ABA Model Rule of Professional Conduct 1.2(d) (2009) ("A lawyer shall not counsel a client to engage, or assist a client, in conduct that the lawyer knows is criminal or fraudulent, but a lawyer may discuss the legal consequences of any proposed course of conduct with a client and may counsel or assist a client to make a good faith effort to determine the validity, scope, meaning or application of the law"). Even if the statute were not clear in this regard, we would reach the same conclusion about its scope because the inhibition of frank discussion serves no conceivable purpose within the statutory scheme. Cf. Johnson v. United States, 529 U. S. 694, 706, n. 9 (2000).5     Finally, we reject Milavetz's contention that, narrowly construed, §526(a)(4) is impermissibly vague. Milavetz urges that the concept of abusive prefiling conduct is too indefinite to withstand constitutional scrutiny and that uncertainty regarding the scope of the prohibition will chill protected speech. We disagree.     Under our reading of the statute, of course, the prohibited advice is not defined in terms of abusive prefiling conduct but rather the incurrence of additional debt when the impelling reason is the anticipation of bankruptcy. Even if the test depended upon the notion of abuse, however, Milavetz's claim would be fatally undermined by other provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, to which that concept is no stranger. As discussed above, the Code authorizes a bankruptcy court to decline to discharge fraudulent debts, see §523(a)(2), or to dismiss a case or convert it to a case under another chapter if it finds that granting relief would constitute abuse, see §707(b)(1). Attorneys and other professionals who give debtors bankruptcy advice must know of these provisions and their consequences for a debtor who in bad faith incurs additional debt prior to filing. Indeed, §707(b)(4)(C) states that an attorney's signature on bankruptcy filings "shall constitute a certification that the attorney has" determined that the filing "does not constitute an abuse under [§707(b)(1)]." Against this backdrop, it is hard to see how a rule that narrowly prohibits an attorney from affirmatively advising a client to commit this type of abusive prefiling conduct could chill attorney speech or inhibit the attorney-client relationship. Our construction of §526(a)(4) to prevent only advice principally motivated by the prospect of bankruptcy further ensures that professionals cannot unknowingly run afoul of its proscription.6 Because the scope of the prohibition is adequately defined, both on its own terms and by reference to the Code's other provisions, we reject Milavetz's vagueness claim.     As the foregoing shows, the language of the statute, together with other evidence of its purpose, makes this narrow reading of §526(a)(4) not merely a plausible interpretation but the more natural one. Accordingly, we reject the Eighth Circuit's conclusion and hold that a debt relief agency violates §526(a)(4) only when the impetus of the advice to incur more debt is the expectation of filing for bankruptcy and obtaining the attendant relief. Because our reading of the statute supplies a sufficient ground for reversing the Court of Appeals' decision, and because Milavetz challenges the constitutionality of the statute, as narrowed, only on vagueness grounds, we need not further consider whether the statute so construed withstands First Amendment scrutiny.C     Finally, we address the validity of §528's challenged disclosure requirements. Our first task in resolving this question is to determine the contours of Milavetz's claim. Although the nature of its challenge is not entirely clear from the briefing or decisions below, counsel for Milavetz insisted at oral argument that this is "not a facial challenge; it's an as-applied challenge." Tr. of Oral Arg. 26. We will approach the question consistent with Milavetz's characterization.7     We next consider the standard of scrutiny applicable to §528's disclosure requirements. The parties agree, as do we, that the challenged provisions regulate only commercial speech. Milavetz contends that our decision in Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y., 447 U. S. 557 (1980), supplies the proper standard for reviewing these requirements. The Court in that case held that restrictions on nonmisleading commercial speech regarding lawful activity must withstand intermediate scrutiny--that is, they must "directly advanc[e]" a substantial governmental interest and be "n[o] more extensive than is necessary to serve that interest." Id., at 566. Contesting Milavetz's premise, the Government maintains that §528 is directed at misleading commercial speech. For that reason, and because the challenged provisions impose a disclosure requirement rather than an affirmative limitation on speech, the Government contends that the less exacting scrutiny described in Zauderer governs our review. We agree.     Zauderer addressed the validity of a rule of professional conduct that required attorneys who advertised contingency-fee services to disclose in their advertisements that a losing client might still be responsible for certain litigation fees and costs. Noting that First Amendment protection for commercial speech is justified in large part by the information's value to consumers, the Court concluded that an attorney's constitutionally protected interest in not providing the required factual information is "minimal." 471 U. S., at 651. Unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements offend the First Amendment by chilling protected speech, but "an advertiser's rights are adequately protected as long as disclosure requirements are reasonably related to the State's interest in preventing deception of consumers." Ibid.     The challenged provisions of §528 share the essential features of the rule at issue in Zauderer. As in that case, §528's required disclosures are intended to combat the problem of inherently misleading commercial advertisements--specifically, the promise of debt relief without any reference to the possibility of filing for bankruptcy, which has inherent costs. Additionally, the disclosures entail only an accurate statement identifying the advertiser's legal status and the character of the assistance provided, and they do not prevent debt relief agencies like Milavetz from conveying any additional information.     The same characteristics of §528 that make it analogous to the rule in Zauderer serve to distinguish it from those at issue in In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191 (1982), to which the Court applied the intermediate scrutiny of Central Hudson. The ethical rules addressed in R. M. J. prohibited attorneys from advertising their practice areas in terms other than those prescribed by the State Supreme Court and from announcing the courts in which they were admitted to practice. See 455 U. S., at 197-198. Finding that the restricted statements were not inherently misleading and that the State had failed to show that the appellant's advertisements were themselves likely to mislead consumers, see id., at 205, the Court applied Central Hudson's intermediate scrutiny and invalidated the restrictions as insufficiently tailored to any substantial state interest, 455 U. S., at 205-206. In so holding, the Court emphasized that States retain authority to regulate inherently misleading advertisements, particularly through disclosure requirements, and it noted that advertisements for professional services pose a special risk of deception. See id., at 203, 207.     Milavetz makes much of the fact that the Government in these consolidated cases has adduced no evidence that its advertisements are misleading. Zauderer forecloses that argument: "When the possibility of deception is as self-evident as it is in this case, we need not require the State to 'conduct a survey of the ... public before it [may] determine that the [advertisement] had a tendency to mislead.' " 471 U. S., at 652-653 (quoting FTC v. Colgate-Palmolive Co., 380 U. S. 374, 391-392 (1965)). Evidence in the congressional record demonstrating a pattern of advertisements that hold out the promise of debt relief without alerting consumers to its potential cost, see 1998 Hearings, pt. III, at 86, 90-94, is adequate to establish that the likelihood of deception in this case "is hardly a speculative one," 471 U. S., at 652.     Milavetz alternatively argues that the term "debt relief agency" is confusing and misleading and that requiring its inclusion in advertisements cannot be "reasonably related" to the Government's interest in preventing consumer deception, as Zauderer requires. Id., at 651. This contention amounts to little more than a preference on Milavetz's part for referring to itself as something other than a "debt relief agency"--e.g., an attorney or a law firm. For several reasons, we conclude that this preference lacks any constitutional basis. First, Milavetz offers no evidence to support its claim that the label is confusing. Because §528 by its terms applies only to debt relief agencies, the disclosures are necessarily accurate to that extent: Only debt relief agencies must identify themselves as such in their advertisements. This statement provides interested observers with pertinent information about the advertiser's services and client obligations.     Other information that Milavetz must or may include in its advertisements for bankruptcy-assistance services provides additional assurance that consumers will not misunderstand the term. The required statement that the advertiser " 'help[s] people file for bankruptcy relief' " gives meaningful context to the term "debt relief agency." And Milavetz may further identify itself as a law firm or attorney. Section 528 also gives Milavetz flexibility to tailor the disclosures to its individual circumstances, as long as the resulting statements are "substantially similar" to the statutory examples. §§528(a)(4) and (b)(2)(B).     Finally, we reject Milavetz's argument that §528 is not reasonably related to any governmental interest because it applies equally to attorneys who represent creditors, as Milavetz sometimes does. The required disclosures, Milavetz contends, would be counterfactual and misleading in that context. This claim is premised on an untenable reading of the statute. We think it evident from the definition of "assisted person"--which is stated in terms of the person's debts, see §101(3)--and from the text and structure of the debt-relief-agency provisions in §§526, 527, and 528 that those provisions, including §528's disclosure requirements, govern only professionals who offer bankruptcy-related services to consumer debtors. Section 528 is itself expressly concerned with advertisements pertaining to "bankruptcy assistance services," "the benefits of bankruptcy," "excessive debt, debt collection pressure, or inability to pay any consumer debt," §§528(a)(3) and (b)(2). Moreover, like the other debt-relief-agency provisions, that section is codified in a subchapter of the Bankruptcy Code entitled "debtor's duties and benefits." 11 U. S. C., ch. 5, subch. II. In context, reading §528 to govern advertisements aimed at creditors would be as anomalous as the result of which Milavetz complains. Once again, we decline Milavetz's invitation to adopt a view of the statute that is contrary to its plain meaning and would produce an absurd result.     Because §528's requirements that Milavetz identify itself as a debt relief agency and include certain information about its bankruptcy-assistance and related services are "reasonably related to the [Government's] interest in preventing deception of consumers," Zauderer, 471 U. S., at 651, we uphold those provisions as applied to Milavetz.IV     For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit is affirmed as to §§101(12A) and 528 and reversed as to §526(a)(4), and the cases are remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Scalia, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.     I join the opinion of the Court, except for footnote 3, which notes that the legislative history supports what the statute unambiguously says. The Court first notes that statements in the Report of the House Committee on the Judiciary "indicate concern with abusive practices undertaken by attorneys." Ante, at 6, n. 3. Perhaps, but only the concern of the author of the Report. Such statements tell us nothing about what the statute means, since (1) we do not know that the members of the Committee read the Report, (2) it is almost certain that they did not vote on the Report (that is not the practice), and (3) even if they did read and vote on it, they were not, after all, those who made this law. The statute before us is a law because its text was approved by a majority vote of the House and the Senate, and was signed by the President. Even indulging the extravagant assumption that Members of the House other than members of its Committee on the Judiciary read the Report (and the further extravagant assumption that they agreed with it), the Members of the Senate could not possibly have read it, since it did not exist when the Senate passed the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005. And the President surely had more important things to do.     The footnote's other source of legislative history is truly mystifying. For the proposition that "the legislative record elsewhere documents misconduct by attorneys" which was presumably the concern of Congress, the Court cites a reproduction of a tasteless advertisement that was (1) an attachment to the written statement of a witness, (2) in a hearing held seven years prior to this statute's passage, (3) before a subcommittee of the House considering a different consumer bankruptcy reform bill that never passed.* "Elsewhere" indeed.     The Court acknowledges that nothing can be gained by this superfluous citation (it admits the footnote is "unnecessary in light of the statute's unambiguous language," ante, at 6, n. 3). But much can be lost. Our cases have said that legislative history is irrelevant when the statutory text is clear. See, e.g., United States v. Gonzales, 520 U. S. 1, 6 (1997); Connecticut Nat. Bank v. Germain, 503 U. S. 249, 254 (1992). The footnote advises conscientious attorneys that this is not true, and that they must spend time and their clients' treasure combing the annals of legislative history in all cases: To buttress their case where the statutory text is unambiguously in their favor; and to attack an unambiguous text that is against them. If legislative history is relevant to confirm that a clear text means what it says, it is presumably relevant to show that an apparently clear text does not mean what it seems to say. Even for those who believe in the legal fiction that committee reports reflect congressional intent, footnote 3 is a bridge too far.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Thomas, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.     I concur in the judgment and join all but Part III-C of the Court's opinion. I agree with the Court that 11 U. S. C. §528's advertising disclosure requirements survive First Amendment scrutiny on the record before us. I write separately because different reasons lead me to that conclusion.     I have never been persuaded that there is any basis in the First Amendment for the relaxed scrutiny this Court applies to laws that suppress nonmisleading commercial speech. See 44 Liquormart, Inc. v. Rhode Island, 517 U. S. 484, 522-523 (1996) (opinion concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (discussing Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y., 447 U. S. 557 (1980)). In this case, the Court applies a still lower standard of scrutiny to review a law that compels the disclosure of commercial speech--i.e., the rule articulated in Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626 (1985), that laws that require the disclosure of factual information in commercial advertising may be upheld so long as they are "reasonably related" to the government's interest in preventing consumer deception, id., at 651.     I am skeptical of the premise on which Zauderer rests--that, in the commercial-speech context, "the First Amendment interests implicated by disclosure requirements are substantially weaker than those at stake when speech is actually suppressed," id., at 652, n. 14; see id., at 650 (citing "material differences between disclosure requirements and outright prohibitions on speech"). We have refused in other contexts to attach any "constitutional significance" to the difference between regulations that compel protected speech and regulations that restrict it. See, e.g., Riley v. National Federation of Blind of N. C., Inc., 487 U. S. 781, 796-797 (1988). I see no reason why that difference should acquire constitutional significance merely because the regulations at issue involve commercial speech. See Glickman v. Wileman Brothers & Elliott, Inc., 521 U. S. 457, 480-481 (1997) (Souter, J., dissenting) (arguing that "commercial speech is ... subject to [this] First Amendment principle: that compelling cognizable speech officially is just as suspect as suppressing it, and is typically subject to the same level of scrutiny"); id., at 504 (Thomas, J., dissenting); cf. United States v. United Foods, Inc., 533 U. S. 405, 419 (2001) (Thomas, J., concurring) (stating that regulations that compel funding for commercial advertising "must be subjected to the most stringent First Amendment scrutiny").     Accordingly, I would be willing to reexamine Zauderer and its progeny in an appropriate case to determine whether these precedents provide sufficient First Amendment protection against government-mandated disclosures.1 Because no party asks us to do so here, however, I agree with the Court that the Zauderer standard governs our review of the challenge to §528 brought by the Milavetz law firm and the other plaintiffs in this action (hereinafter Milavetz).     Yet even under Zauderer, we "have not presumptively endorsed" laws requiring the use of "government-scripted disclaimers" in commercial advertising. See Borgner v. Florida Bd. of Dentistry, 537 U. S. 1080, 1082 (2002) (Thomas, J., dissenting from denial of certiorari). Zauderer upheld the imposition of sanctions against an attorney under a rule of professional conduct that required advertisements for contingency-fee services to disclose that losing clients might be responsible for litigation fees and costs. See 471 U. S., at 650-653. Importantly, however, Zauderer's advertisement was found to be misleading on its face, and the regulation in that case did not mandate the specific form or text of the disclosure. Ibid. Thus, Zauderer does not stand for the proposition that the government can constitutionally compel the use of a scripted disclaimer in any circumstance in which its interest in preventing consumer deception might plausibly be at stake. In other words, a bare assertion by the government that a disclosure requirement is "intended" to prevent consumer deception, standing alone, is not sufficient to uphold the requirement as applied to all speech that falls within its sweep. See ante, at 20.     Instead, our precedents make clear that regulations aimed at false or misleading advertisements are permissible only where "the particular advertising is inherently likely to deceive or where the record indicates that a particular form or method of advertising has in fact been deceptive." In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191, 202 (1982) (emphasis added); see Zauderer, supra, at 651 ("recogniz[ing] that unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements might offend the First Amendment"). Therefore, a disclosure requirement passes constitutional muster only to the extent that it is aimed at advertisements that, by their nature, possess these traits. See R. M. J., supra, at 202; Ibanez v. Florida Dept. of Business and Professional Regulation, Bd. of Accountancy, 512 U. S. 136, 143, 146-147 (1994).     I do not read the Court's opinion to hold otherwise. See ante, at 20. Accordingly, and with that understanding, I turn to the question whether Milavetz's challenge to §528's disclosure requirements survives Zauderer scrutiny on the record before us.     As the Court notes, the posture of Milavetz's challenge inhibits our review of its First Amendment claim. See ante, at 19, n. 7. Milavetz challenged §528's constitutionality before the statute had ever been enforced against any of the firm's advertisements. Although Milavetz purports to challenge §528 only " 'as-applied' " to its own advertising, see ante, at 19, it did not introduce any evidence or exhibits to substantiate its claim. Thus, no court has seen a sampling of Milavetz's advertisements or even a declaration describing their contents and the media through which Milavetz seeks to transmit them. As a consequence, Milavetz's nominal "as applied" challenge appears strikingly similar to a facial challenge.     We generally disapprove of such challenges because they "often rest on speculation" and require courts to engage in " 'premature interpretation of statutes on the basis of factually barebones records.' " Washington State Grange v. Washington State Republican Party, 552 U. S. 442, 450 (2008) (quoting Sabri v. United States, 541 U. S. 600, 609 (2004)). Milavetz's claim invites the same problems. Milavetz alleges that §528's disclosure requirements are unconstitutional as applied to its advertisements because its advertisements are not misleading and because the disclaimer required by §528 will create, rather than reduce, confusion for Milavetz's potential clients. That may well be true. But because no record evidence of Milavetz's advertisements exists to guide our review, we can only speculate about the ways in which the statute might be applied to Milavetz's speech.     When forced to determine the constitutionality of a statute based solely on such conjecture, we will uphold the law if there is any "conceivabl[e]" manner in which it can be enforced consistent with the First Amendment. Washington State Grange, supra, at 456. In this case, both parties agree that §528's disclosure requirements cover, at a minimum, deceptive advertisements that promise to " 'wipe out' " debts without mentioning bankruptcy as the means of accomplishing this goal.2 Brief for Milavetz 82, 86; Brief for United States 60-62. As a result, there is at least one set of facts on which the statute could be constitutionally applied. Thus, I agree with the Court that Milavetz's challenge to §528 must fail.FOOTNOTESSection 340B of the Public Health Services Act imposes ceilings on prices drug manufacturers may charge for medications sold to specified health care facilities (340B or covered entities), dominantly, local providers of medical care for the poor. The §340B ceiling-price program (340B Program) is superintended by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), part of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). It is tied to the earlier-enacted, much larger Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, under which manufacturers gain Medicaid coverage for their drugs. To qualify for participation in this program, a manufacturer must enter into a standardized agreement with HHS undertaking to provide rebates to States on their Medicaid drug purchases. The amount of the rebates depends on a manufacturer's "average" and "best" prices, as defined by legislation and regulation. The 340B Program, like the Medicaid Rebate Program, uses a form contract as an opt-in mechanism. The 340B Program also draws on the larger scheme's pricing methodology. In the 340B Program's contract, called the Pharmaceutical Pricing Agreement (PPA), manufacturers agree to charge covered entities no more than predetermined ceiling prices, derived from the "average" and "best" prices and rebates calculated under the Medicaid Rebate Program.          HRSA may require a manufacturer who overcharges a covered entity to reimburse that entity. HRSA may also terminate the manufacturer's PPA, which terminates as well the manufacturer's eligibility for Medicaid coverage of its drugs. Currently, HRSA handles overcharge complaints through informal procedures, but the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) directs the Secretary to develop formal procedures. Once those procedures are in place, HRSA will reach an "administrative resolution," which will be subject to judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA). In addition to authorizing compensation awards to overcharged entities, the PPACA provides for the imposition of monetary penalties payable to the Government.          Respondent Santa Clara County (County), operator of several 340B entities, filed suit against Astra and eight other pharmaceutical companies, alleging that they were overcharging 340B entities in violation of the PPAs. Asserting that 340B entities are the PPAs' intended beneficiaries, the County sought compensatory damages for breach of contract. The District Court dismissed the complaint, concluding that the PPAs conferred no enforceable rights on 340B entities. Reversing, the Ninth Circuit held that, while 340B entities have no right to sue under the statute, they could proceed against drug manufacturers as third-party beneficiaries of the PPAs.Held: Suits by 340B entities to enforce ceiling-price contracts running between drug manufacturers and the Secretary of HHS are incompatible with the statutory regime. As the County has conceded, covered entities have no right of action under §340B itself. Congress vested authority to oversee compliance with the 340B Program in HHS and assigned no auxiliary enforcement role to covered entities. Nonetheless, the County maintains that the PPAs are contracts enforceable by covered entities as third-party beneficiaries. This argument overlooks that the PPAs simply incorporate statutory obligations and record the manufacturers' agreement to abide by them. The agreements have no negotiable terms. Like the Medicaid Rebate Program agreements, the PPAs provide the means by which drug manufacturers opt into the statutory scheme. A third-party suit to enforce an HHS-drug manufacturer agreement, therefore, is in essence a suit to enforce the statute itself. Telling in this regard, the County based its suit on allegations that the manufacturers charged more than the §340B ceiling price, not that they violated an independent substantive obligation arising from the PPAs.     The Ninth Circuit reasoned that suits like the County's would spread the enforcement burden instead of placing it entirely on the Government. But spreading the enforcement burden is hardly what Congress contemplated when it made HHS administrator of the interdependent Medicaid Rebate Program and 340B Program. Suits by 340B entities would undermine the agency's efforts to administer these two programs harmoniously and uniformly. Notably, the Medicaid Rebate Program's statute prohibits HHS from disclosing pricing information that could reveal the prices a manufacturer charges for its drugs. Had Congress meant to leave open the prospect of third-party beneficiary suits by 340B entities, it likely would not have barred them from obtaining the very information necessary to determine whether their asserted rights have been violated.     The Ninth Circuit noted that HHS's Office of the Inspector General has reported on HRSA's inadequate enforcement authority. But Congress did not respond to the reports of lax enforcement by inviting 340B entities to launch lawsuits. Instead, Congress opted to strengthen and formalize HRSA's enforcement authority, to make the new adjudicative framework the proper remedy for covered entities' complaints, and to render the agency's resolution of those complaints binding, subject to judicial review under the APA. Pp. 5-10.588 F. 3d 1237, reversed.     Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which all other Members joined, except Kagan, J., who took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.ASTRA USA, INC., et al., PETITIONERS v. SANTA CLARA COUNTY, CALIFORNIAon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[March 29, 2011]     Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.     Section 340B of the Public Health Services Act, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b (Oct. 2010 Supp.), imposes ceilings on prices drug manufacturers may charge for medications sold to specified health care facilities. Those facilities, here called "340B" or "covered" entities, include public hospitals and community health centers, many of them providers of safety-net services to the poor. The §340B ceiling-price program (340B Program) is superintended by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), a unit of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Drug manufacturers opt into the 340B Program by signing a form Pharmaceutical Pricing Agreement (PPA) used nationwide. PPAs are not transactional, bargained-for contracts. They are uniform agreements that recite the responsibilities §340B imposes, respectively, on drug manufacturers and the Secretary of HHS. Manufacturers' eligibility to participate in state Medicaid programs is conditioned on their entry into PPAs for covered drugs purchased by 340B entities.     It is conceded that Congress authorized no private right of action under §340B for covered entities who claim they have been charged prices exceeding the statutory ceiling. This case presents the question whether 340B entities, though accorded no right to sue for overcharges under the statute itself, may nonetheless sue allegedly overcharging manufacturers as third-party beneficiaries of the PPAs to which the manufacturers subscribed. We hold that suits by 340B entities to enforce ceiling-price contracts running between drug manufacturers and the Secretary of HHS are incompatible with the statutory regime.     Congress placed the Secretary (acting through her designate, HRSA) in control of §340B's drug-price prescriptions. That control could not be maintained were potentially thousands of covered entities permitted to bring suits alleging errors in manufacturers' price calculations. If 340B entities may not sue under the statute, it would make scant sense to allow them to sue on a form contract implementing the statute, setting out terms identical to those contained in the statute. Though labeled differently, suits to enforce §340B and suits to enforce PPAs are in substance one and the same. Their treatment, therefore, must be the same, "[n]o matter the clothing in which [340B entities] dress their claims." Tenet v. Doe, 544 U. S. 1, 8 (2005).IA     The 340B Program is tied to the earlier-enacted, much larger Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. Adopted by Congress in 1990, the Medicaid Rebate Program covers a significant portion of drug purchases in the United States. See GAO, J. Dicken, Prescription Drugs: Oversight of Drug Pricing in Federal Programs 1 (GAO-07-481T, 2007) (testimony before the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, House of Representatives).1 To gain payment under Medicaid for covered drugs, a manufacturer must enter a standardized agreement with HHS; in the agreement, the manufacturer undertakes to provide rebates to States on their Medicaid drug purchases. 104 Stat. 1388-143, as amended, 124 Stat. 3290, 42 U. S. C. A. §1396r-8(a). The amount of the rebates depends on the manufacturer's "average" and "best" prices, as defined by legislation and regulation. §1396r-8(c), (k).     Calculation of a manufacturer's "average" and "best" prices, undertaken by the pharmaceutical company, is a complex enterprise requiring recourse to detailed information about the company's sales and pricing. §1396r-8(k); 42 CFR §447.500-520 (2010). To enable HHS to calculate the rebate rate for each drug, manufacturers submit the relevant data to HHS on a quarterly basis. §1396r-8(b)(3). With exceptions set out in the legislation, HHS is prohibited from disclosing the submitted information "in a form which discloses the identity of a specific manufacturer ... [or] prices charged for drugs by such manu-facturer." §1396r-8(b)(3)(D).     Under §340B, added in 1992, 106 Stat. 4967, as amended, 124 Stat. 823, manufacturers participating in Medicaid must offer discounted drugs to covered entities, dominantly, local facilities that provide medical care for the poor. See §256b(a); §1396r-8(a)(1). The 340B Program, like the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, employs a form contract as an opt-in mechanism. The 340B Program also draws on the larger scheme's pricing methodology. In their 340B Program contracts with HHS, called Pharmaceutical Pricing Agreements (PPAs), see supra, at 1, manufacturers agree to charge covered entities no more than predetermined ceiling prices, derived from the "average" and "best" prices and rebates calculated under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. §256b(a)(1); see App. to Pet. for Cert. 165a-171a (PPA §I-II).2     If a manufacturer overcharges a covered entity, HRSA may require the manufacturer to reimburse the covered entity; HRSA may also terminate the manufacturer's PPA, §1396r-8(b)(4)(B)(i), (v); App. to Pet. for Cert. 174a (PPA §IV(c)), which terminates as well the manufacturer's eligibility for Medicaid coverage of its drugs, §1396r-8(a)(1), (5). Currently, HRSA handles overcharge complaints through informal procedures. Manufacturer Audit Guidelines and Dispute Resolution Process, 61 Fed. Reg. 65412 (1996). The 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), Pub. L. 111-148, 124 Stat. 119, provides for more rigorous enforcement. The PPACA directs the Secretary to develop formal procedures for resolving overcharge claims. Id., at 826, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d) (3)(A). Under those procedures, which are not yet in place, HRSA will reach an "administrative resolution" that is subject to judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5 U. S. C. §701 et seq. See 124 Stat. 827, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d)(3)(C). In addition to authorizing compensation awards to overcharged entities, the PPACA provides for the imposition of monetary penalties payable to the Government. Id., at 824-825, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d)(1)(B)(ii), (vi).B     Respondent Santa Clara County (County), operator of several 340B entities, commenced suit against Astra and eight other pharmaceutical companies, alleging that the companies were overcharging 340B health care facilities in violation of the PPAs to which the companies subscribed. The County styled its suit a class action on behalf of both 340B entities in California and the counties that fund those entities. Asserting that the 340B entities and the counties that fund them are the intended beneficiaries of the PPAs, the County sought compensatory damages for the pharmaceutical companies' breach of contract.     The District Court dismissed the complaint, concluding that the PPAs conferred no enforceable rights on 340B entities. Reversing the District Court's judgment, the Ninth Circuit held that covered entities, although they have no right to sue under the statute, could maintain the action as third-party beneficiaries of the PPAs. 588 F. 3d 1237, 1241 (2009).     We granted certiorari, 561 U. S. ___ (2010),3 and now reverse the Ninth Circuit's judgment.II     As the County conceded below and before this Court, see 588 F. 3d, at 1249; Tr. of Oral Arg. 45, covered entities have no right of action under §340B itself. "[R]ecognition of any private right of action for violating a federal statute," currently governing decisions instruct, "must ultimately rest on congressional intent to provide a private remedy." Virginia Bankshares, Inc. v. Sandberg, 501 U. S. 1083, 1102 (1991). See also Stoneridge Investment Partners, LLC v. Scientific-Atlanta, Inc., 552 U. S. 148, 164 (2008); Alexander v. Sandoval, 532 U. S. 275, 286 (2001). Congress vested authority to oversee compliance with the 340B Program in HHS and assigned no auxiliary enforcement role to covered entities.     Notwithstanding its inability to assert a statutory right of action, the County maintains that the PPAs implementing the 340B Program are agreements enforceable by covered entities as third-party beneficiaries. A nonparty becomes legally entitled to a benefit promised in a contract, the County recognizes, only if the contracting parties so intend. Brief for Respondent 31 (citing Restatement (Second) of Contracts §302(1)(b) (1979)). The PPAs "specifically nam[e]" covered entities as the recipients of discounted drugs, the County observes; indeed the very object of the agreements is to ensure that those entities would be "charge[d] ... no more than the ceiling price." Brief for Respondent 33. When the Government uses a contract to secure a benefit, the County urges, the intended recipient acquires a right to the benefit enforceable under federal common law. Id., at 30. But see 9 J. Murray, Corbin on Contracts §45.6, p. 92 (rev. ed. 2007) ("The distinction between an intention to benefit a third party and an intention that the third party should have the right to enforce that intention is emphasized where the promisee is a governmental entity.").     The County's argument overlooks that the PPAs simply incorporate statutory obligations and record the manufacturers' agreement to abide by them. The form agreements, composed by HHS, contain no negotiable terms. Like the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program agreements, see supra, at 3, the 340B Program agreements serve as the means by which drug manufacturers opt into the statutory scheme. A third-party suit to enforce an HHS-drug manufacturer agreement, therefore, is in essence a suit to enforce the statute itself. The absence of a private right to enforce the statutory ceiling price obligations would be rendered meaningless if 340B entities could overcome that obstacle by suing to enforce the contract's ceiling price obligations instead. The statutory and contractual obligations, in short, are one and the same. See Grochowski v. Phoenix Construction, 318 F. 3d 80, 86 (CA2 2003) (when a government contract confirms a statutory obligation, "a third-party private contract action [to enforce that obligation] would be inconsistent with ... the legislative scheme ... to the same extent as would a cause of action directly under the statute" (internal quotation marks omitted)).     Telling in this regard, the County based its suit on allegations that the manufacturers charged more than the §340B ceiling price, see, e.g., Third Amended Complaint in No. 3:05-cv-03740 (ND Cal.), ¶1, 65, not that they violated any independent substantive obligation arising only from the PPAs.4 Repeatedly, the County acknowledged that §340B is the source of the contractual term allegedly breached. See, e.g., id., ¶28 ("[Section] 340B requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to ensure that §340B Participants pay no more than the 'ceiling price' ... for any pharmaceutical product."); id., ¶36 ("Under both §340B and the PPA, [drug manufacturers] are required to ensure that the §340B Participants ... pay no more for any product than the §340B ceiling price.").     The Ninth Circuit determined that "[p]ermitting covered entities to sue as intended beneficiaries of the PPA is ... wholly compatible with the Section 340B program's objectives" to ensure "that drug companies comply with their obligations under the program and provide [the required] discounts." 588 F. 3d, at 1251. Suits like the County's, the Court of Appeals reasoned, would spread the enforcement burden instead of placing it "[entirely] on the government." Ibid. (citing Price v. Pierce, 823 F. 2d 1114, 1121 (CA7 1987)). But spreading the enforcement burden, the United States stressed, both in the Ninth Circuit and in this Court, is hardly what Congress contemplated when it "centralized enforcement in the government." Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 32; see Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae in No. 09-15216 (CA9), p. 13 (County's challenge is at odds with Congress' unitary administrative and enforcement scheme).5     Congress made HHS administrator of both the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and the 340B Program, the United States observed, Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 33-34, and "[t]he interdependent nature of the two programs' requirements means that an adjudication of rights under one program must proceed with an eye towards any implications for the other," id., at 34. Far from assisting HHS, suits by 340B entities would undermine the agency's efforts to administer both Medicaid and §340B harmoniously and on a uniform, nationwide basis.6 Recognizing the County's right to proceed in court could spawn a multitude of dispersed and uncoordinated lawsuits by 340B entities. With HHS unable to hold the control rein, the risk of conflicting adjudications would be substantial.     As earlier noted, see supra, at 3, the Medicaid Rebate Program's statute prohibits HHS from disclosing pricing information in a form that could reveal the prices a manufacturer charges for drugs it produces. §1396r-8(b)(3)(D).7 This ban on disclosure is a further indication of the incompatibility of private suits with the statute Congress enacted. If Congress meant to leave open the prospect of third-party beneficiary suits by 340B entities, it likely would not have barred the potential suitors from obtaining the very information necessary to determine whether their asserted rights have been violated.8     It is true, as the Ninth Circuit observed, that HHS's Office of the Inspector General (OIG) has published reports finding that "HRSA lacks the oversight mechanisms and authority to ensure that [covered] entities pay at or below the ... ceiling price." 588 F. 3d, at 1242 (quoting OIG, D. Levinson, Deficiencies in the Oversight of the 340B Drug Pricing Program ii (OEI-05-02-00072, Oct. 2005)). See also 588 F. 3d, at 1242-1243 (citing OIG, D. Levinson, Review of 340B Prices 11 (OEI-05-02-00073, July 2006) (estimating that covered entities overpaid $3.9 million in June 2005 alone)). But Congress did not respond to the reports of inadequate HRSA enforcement by inviting 340B entities to launch lawsuits in district courts across the country. Instead, in the PPACA, Congress directed HRSA to create a formal dispute resolution procedure, institute refund and civil penalty systems, and perform audits of manufacturers. 124 Stat. 823-827, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d). Congress thus opted to strengthen and formalize HRSA's enforcement authority, to make the new adjudicative framework the proper remedy for covered entities complaining of "overcharges and other violations of the discounted pricing requirements," id., at 823, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d)(1)(A), and to render the agency's resolution of covered entities' complaints binding, subject to judicial review under the APA, id., at 827, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d)(3)(C).*??*??*     For the reasons stated, the judgment of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit isReversed.     Justice Kagan took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.FOOTNOTESThe 1989 version of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208 (FMVSS 208) requires, as relevant here, auto manufacturers to install seatbelts on the rear seats of passenger vehicles. They must install lap-and-shoulder belts on seats next to a vehicle's doors or frames, but may install either those belts or simple lap belts on rear inner seats, e.g., those next to a minivan's aisle.          The Williamson family and Thanh Williamson's estate brought this California tort suit, claiming that Thanh died in an accident because the rear aisle seat of the Mazda minivan in which she was riding had a lap belt instead of lap-and-shoulder belts. The state trial court dismissed their claim on the pleadings. The State Court of Appeal affirmed, relying on Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861, in which this Court found that an earlier (1984) version of FMVSS 208--which required installation of passive restraint devices--pre-empted a state tort suit against an auto manufacturer on a failure to install airbags.Held: FMVSS 208 does not pre-empt state tort suits claiming that manufacturers should have installed lap-and-shoulder belts, instead of lap belts, on rear inner seats. Pp. 3-12.     (a) Because this case involves (1) the same statute as Geier, (2) a later version of the same regulation, and (3) a somewhat similar claim that a state tort action conflicts with the federal regulation, the answers to two of the subsidiary questions posed in Geier apply directly here. Thus, the statute's express pre-emption clause cannot pre-empt the common-law tort action here; but neither can its saving clause foreclose or limit the operation of ordinary conflict pre-emption principles. The Court consequently turns to Geier's third subsidiary question, whether, in fact, the state tort action conflicts with the federal regulation. Pp. 3-5.     (b) Under ordinary conflict pre-emption principles a state law that "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment" of a federal law is pre-empted. Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67. In Geier, the state law stood as an obstacle to the accomplishment of a significant federal regulatory objective, namely, giving manufacturers a choice among different kinds of passive restraint systems. This conclusion was supported by the regulation's history, the agency's contemporaneous explanation, and the Government's current understanding of the regulation. The history showed that the Department of Transportation (DOT) had long thought it important to leave manufacturers with a choice of systems. DOT's contemporaneous explanation of the regulation made clear that manufacturer choice was an important means for achieving DOT's basic objectives. It phased in passive restraint requirements to give manufacturers time to improve airbag technology and develop better systems; it worried that requiring airbags would cause a public backlash; and it was concerned about airbag safety and cost. Finally, the Government's current understanding was that a tort suit insisting upon airbag use would " ' "stan[d] as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of these objectives." ' " 529 U. S., at 883. Pp. 5-8.     (c) Like the regulation in Geier, the instant regulation leaves the manufacturer with a choice, and the tort suit here would restrict that choice. But in contrast to Geier, the choice here is not a significant regulatory objective. The regulation's history resembles the history of airbags to some degree. DOT rejected a regulation requiring lap-and-shoulder belts in rear seats in 1984. But by 1989, changed circumstances led DOT to require manufacturers to install lap-and-shoulder belts for rear outer seats but to retain a manufacturer choice for rear inner seats. Its reasons for doing so differed considerably from its 1984 reasons for permitting a choice of passive restraint. It was not concerned about consumer acceptance; it thought that lap-and-shoulder belts would increase safety and did not pose additional safety risks; and it was not seeking to use the regulation to spur development of alternative safety devices. Instead, DOT thought that the requirement would not be cost effective. That fact alone cannot show that DOT sought to forbid common-law tort suits. For one thing, DOT did not believe that costs would remain frozen. For another, many federal safety regulations embody a cost-effectiveness judgment. To infer pre-emptive intent from the mere existence of such a cost-effectiveness judgment would eliminate the possibility that the agency seeks only to set forth a minimum standard. Finally, the Solicitor General represents that DOT's regulation does not pre-empt this tort suit. As in Geier, "the agency's own views should make a difference," 529 U. S., at 883, and DOT has not expressed inconsistent views on this subject. Pp. 8-12.167 Cal. App. 4th 905, 84 Cal. Rptr. 3d 545, reversed.     Breyer, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Scalia, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Alito, and Sotomayor, JJ., joined. Sotomayor, J., filed a concurring opinion. Thomas, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment. Kagan, J., took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.DELBERT WILLIAMSON, et al., PETITIONERS v. MAZDA MOTOR OF AMERICA, INC., et al.on writ of certiorari to the court of appeal of cali-fornia, fourth appellate district, division three[February 23, 2011]     Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court.     Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208 (1989 version) requires, among other things, that auto manufacturers install seatbelts on the rear seats of passenger vehicles. They must install lap-and-shoulder belts on seats next to a vehicle's doors or frames. But they have a choice about what to install on rear inner seats (say, middle seats or those next to a minivan's aisle). There they can install either (1) simple lap belts or (2) lap-and-shoulder belts. 54 Fed. Reg. 46257-46258 (1989); 49 CFR §571.208 (1993), promulgated pursuant to the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (Act), 80 Stat. 718, 15 U. S. C. §1381 et seq. (1988 ed.) (recodified without substantive change at 49 U. S. C. §30101 et seq. (2006 ed.)).     The question presented here is whether this federal regulation pre-empts a state tort suit that, if successful, would deny manufacturers a choice of belts for rear inner seats by imposing tort liability upon those who choose to install a simple lap belt. We conclude that providing manufacturers with this seatbelt choice is not a significant objective of the federal regulation. Consequently, the regulation does not pre-empt the state tort suit.I     In 2002, the Williamson family, riding in their 1993 Mazda minivan, was struck head on by another vehicle. Thanh Williamson was sitting in a rear aisle seat, wearing a lap belt; she died in the accident. Delbert and Alexa Williamson were wearing lap-and-shoulder belts; they survived. They, along with Thanh's estate, subsequently brought this California tort suit against Mazda. They claimed that Mazda should have installed lap-and-shoulder belts on rear aisle seats, and that Thanh died because Mazda equipped her seat with a lap belt instead.     The California trial court dismissed this tort claim on the basis of the pleadings. And the California Court of Appeal affirmed. The appeals court noted that in Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861 (2000), this Court considered whether a different portion of (an older version of) Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208 (FMVSS 208)--a portion that required installation of passive restraint devices--pre-empted a state tort suit that sought to hold an auto manufacturer liable for failure to install a particular kind of passive restraint, namely, airbags. We found that the federal regulation intended to assure manufacturers that they would retain a choice of installing any of several different passive restraint devices. And the regulation sought to assure them that they would not have to exercise this choice in favor of airbags. For that reason we thought that the federal regulation pre-empted a state tort suit that, by premising tort liability on a failure to install airbags, would have deprived the manufacturers of the choice that the federal regulation had assured them. Id., at 874-875.     The court saw considerable similarity between this case and Geier. The federal regulation at issue here gives manufacturers a choice among two different kinds of seatbelts for rear inner seats. And a state lawsuit that premises tort liability on a failure to install a particular kind of seatbelt, namely, lap-and-shoulder belts, would in effect deprive the manufacturer of that choice. The court concluded that, as in Geier, the federal regulation pre-empts the state tort suit. 167 Cal. App. 4th 905, 84 Cal. Rptr. 3d 545 (2008).     The Williamsons sought certiorari. And we granted certiorari in light of the fact that several courts have interpreted Geier as indicating that FMVSS 208 pre-empts state tort suits claiming that manufacturers should have installed lap-and-shoulder belts, not lap belts, on rear inner seats. Carden v. General Motors Corp., 509 F. 3d 227 (CA5 2007); Roland v. General Motors Corp., 881 N. E. 2d 722 (Ind. App. 2008); Heinricher v. Volvo Car Corp., 61 Mass. App. 313, 809 N. E. 2d 1094 (2004).II     In Geier, we considered a portion of an earlier (1984) version of FMVSS 208. That regulation required manufacturers to equip their vehicles with passive restraint systems, thereby providing occupants with automatic accident protection. 49 Fed. Reg. 28983 (1984). But that regulation also gave manufacturers a choice among several different passive restraint systems, including airbags and automatic seatbelts. Id., at 28996. The question before the Court was whether the Act, together with the regulation, pre-empted a state tort suit that would have held a manufacturer liable for not installing airbags. 529 U. S., at 865. By requiring manufacturers to install airbags (in order to avoid tort liability) the tort suit would have deprived the manufacturers of the choice among passive restraint systems that the federal regulation gave them. See Hillsborough County v. Automated Medical Laboratories, Inc., 471 U. S. 707, 713 (1985) ("[S]tate laws can be pre-empted by federal regulations as well as by federal statutes").     We divided this basic pre-emption question into three subsidiary questions. 529 U. S., at 867. First, we asked whether the statute's express pre-emption provision preempted the state tort suit. That statutory clause says that "no State" may "establish, or . . . continue in effect . . . any safety standard applicable to the same aspect of performance" of a motor vehicle or item of equipment "which is not identical to the Federal standard." 15 U. S. C. §1392(d) (1988 ed.) (emphasis added). We had previously held that a word somewhat similar to "standard," namely, "requirements" (found in a similar statute) included within its scope state "common-law duties," such as duties created by state tort law. Medtronic, Inc. v. Lohr, 518 U. S. 470, 502-503 (1996) (plurality opinion); id., at 503-505 (Breyer, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment); id., at 509-512 (O'Connor, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). But we nonetheless held that the state tort suit in question fell outside the scope of this particular pre-emption clause. That is primarily because the statute also contains a saving clause, which says that "[c]ompliance with" a federal safety standard "does not exempt any person from any liability under common law." 15 U. S. C. §1397(k) (emphasis added). Since tort law is ordinarily "common law," we held that "the presence of the saving clause," makes clear that Congress intended state tort suits to fall outside the scope of the express pre-emption clause. Geier, 529 U. S., at 868.     Second, we asked the converse question: The saving clause at least removes tort actions from the scope of the express pre-emption clause. Id., at 869. But does it do more? Does it foreclose or limit "the operation of ordinary pre-emption principles insofar as those principles instruct us to read" federal statutes as pre-empting state laws (including state common-law standards) that "actually conflict" with the federal statutes (or related regulations)? Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). We concluded that the saving clause does not foreclose or limit the operation of "ordinary pre-emption principles, grounded in longstanding precedent." Id., at 874.     These two holdings apply directly to the case before us. We here consider (1) the same statute, 15 U. S. C. §1381 et seq.; (2) a later version of the same regulation, FMVSS 208; and (3) a somewhat similar claim that a state tort action conflicts with the federal regulation. In light of Geier, the statute's express pre-emption clause cannot pre-empt the common-law tort action; but neither can the statute's saving clause foreclose or limit the operation of ordinary conflict pre-emption principles. We consequently turn our attention to Geier's third subsidiary question, whether, in fact, the state tort action conflicts with the federal regulation.III     Under ordinary conflict pre-emption principles a state law that "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives" of a federal law is pre-empted. Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941). See ibid. (federal statute can pre-empt a state statute); Cipollone v. Liggett Group, Inc., 505 U. S. 504 (1992) (federal statute can pre-empt a state tort suit); Fidelity Fed. Sav. & Loan Assn. v. De la Cuesta, 458 U. S. 141 (1982) (federal regulation can pre-empt a state statute); Geier, supra (federal regulation can pre-empt a state tort suit). In Geier we found that the state law stood as an " 'obstacle' to the accomplishment" of a significant federal regulatory objective, namely, the maintenance of manufacturer choice. 529 U. S., at 886. We must decide whether the same is true here.A     At the heart of Geier lies our determination that giving auto manufacturers a choice among different kinds of passive restraint devices was a significant objective of the federal regulation. We reached this conclusion on the basis of our examination of the regulation, including its history, the promulgating agency's contemporaneous explanation of its objectives, and the agency's current views of the regulation's pre-emptive effect.     The history showed that the Department of Transportation (DOT) had long thought it important to leave manufacturers with a choice. In 1967 DOT required manufacturers to install manual seat belts. Geier, supra, at 875; 32 Fed. Reg. 2408, 2415 (1967). Because many car occupants did not "buckle up," DOT began to require passive protection, such as airbags or automatic seatbelts, but without "favor[ing] or "expect[ing]" the use of airbags. Geier, supra, at 875 (internal quotation marks omitted); 35 Fed. Reg. 16927 (1970). DOT subsequently approved the use of ignition interlocks, which froze the ignition until the occupant buckled the belt, as a substitute for passive restraints. Geier, supra, at 876; 37 Fed. Reg. 3911 (1972). But the interlock devices were unpopular with the public, and Congress soon forbade the agency to make them a means of compliance. Geier, supra, at 876; Motor Vehicle and Schoolbus Safety Amendments of 1974, §109, 88 Stat. 1482 (previously codified at 15 U. S. C. §1410(b) (1988 ed.)). DOT then temporarily switched to the use of demonstration projects, but later it returned to mandating passive restraints, again leaving manufacturers with a choice of systems. Geier, supra, at 876-877; see 49 Fed. Reg. 28962 (1984).     DOT's contemporaneous explanation of its 1984 regulation made clear that manufacturer choice was an important means for achieving its basic objectives. The 1984 regulation gradually phased in passive restraint requirements, initially requiring manufacturers to equip only 10% of their new fleets with passive restraints. DOT explained that it intended its phasing period partly to give manufacturers time to improve airbag technology and to develop "other, better" passive restraint systems. Geier, 529 U. S., at 879. DOT further explained that it had rejected an " 'all airbag' " system. Ibid. It was worried that requiring airbags in most or all vehicles would cause a public backlash, like the backlash against interlock devices. Ibid. DOT also had concerns about the safety of airbags, for they could injure out-of-place occupants, particularly children. Id., at 877-878. And, given the cost of airbags, vehicle owners might not replace them when necessary, leaving occupants without passive protection. Ibid. The regulation therefore "deliberately sought variety--a mix of several different passive restraint systems." Id., at 878. DOT hoped that this mix would lead to better information about the devices' comparative effectiveness and to the eventual development of "alternative, cheaper, and safer passive restraint systems." Id., at 879.     Finally, the Solicitor General told us that a tort suit that insisted upon use of airbags, as opposed to other federally permissible passive restraint systems, would "stan[d] as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of these objectives." Id., at 883 (quoting Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae in Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., O. T. 1999, No. 98-1811, pp. 25-26 (hereinafter United States Brief in Geier) (internal quotation marks omitted)). And we gave weight to the Solicitor General's view in light of the fact that it " 'embodie[d] the Secretary's policy judgment that safety would best be promoted if manufacturers installed alternative protection systems in their fleets rather than one particular system in every car.' " 529 U. S., at 881 (quoting United States Brief in Geier 25-26).     Taken together, this history, the agency's contemporaneous explanation, and the Government's current understanding of the regulation convinced us that manufacturer choice was an important regulatory objective. And since the tort suit stood as an obstacle to the accomplishment of that objective, we found the tort suit pre-empted.B     We turn now to the present case. Like the regulation in Geier, the regulation here leaves the manufacturer with a choice. And, like the tort suit in Geier, the tort suit here would restrict that choice. But unlike Geier, we do not believe here that choice is a significant regulatory objective.     We concede that the history of the regulation before us resembles the history of airbags to some degree. In 1984, DOT rejected a regulation that would have required the use of lap-and-shoulder belts in rear seats. 49 Fed. Reg. 15241. Nonetheless, by 1989 when DOT promulgated the present regulation, it had "concluded that several factors had changed." 54 Fed. Reg. 46258.     DOT then required manufacturers to install a particular kind of belt, namely, lap-and-shoulder belts, for rear outer seats. In respect to rear inner seats, it retained manufacturer choice as to which kind of belt to install. But its 1989 reasons for retaining that choice differed considerably from its 1984 reasons for permitting manufacturers a choice in respect to airbags. DOT here was not concerned about consumer acceptance; it was convinced that lap-and-shoulder belts would increase safety; it did not fear additional safety risks arising from use of those belts; it had no interest in assuring a mix of devices; and, though it was concerned about additional costs, that concern was diminishing.     In respect to consumer acceptance, DOT wrote that if"people who are familiar with and in the habit of wearing lap/shoulder belts in the front seat find lap/shoulder belts in the rear seat, it stands to reason that they would be more likely to wear those belts when riding in the rear seat." 53 Fed. Reg. 47983 (1988).     In respect to safety, DOT wrote that, because an increasing number of rear seat passengers wore seatbelts, rear seat lap-and-shoulder belts would have "progressively greater actual safety benefits." 54 Fed. Reg. 46257.It added:"[s]tudies of occupant protection from 1968 forward show that the lap-only safety belts installed in rear seating positions are effective in reducing the risk of death and injury. . . . However, the agency believes that rear-seat lap/shoulder safety belts would be even more effective." Ibid.     Five years earlier, DOT had expressed concern that lap-and-shoulder belts might negatively impact child safety by interfering with the use of certain child car seats that relied upon a tether. But by 1989, DOT found that car-seat designs "had shifted away" from tethers. 53 Fed. Reg. 47983. And rear lap-and-shoulder belts could therefore offer safety benefits for children old enough to use them without diminishing the safety of smaller children in car seats. Id., at 47988-47989 ("[T]he agency believes that this proposal for rear seat lap/shoulder belts would offer benefits for children riding in some types of booster seats, would have no positive or negative effects on children riding in most designs of car seats and children that are too small to use shoulder belts, and would offer older children the same incremental safety protection [as adults]"). Nor did DOT seek to use its regulation to spur the development of alternative kinds of rear aisle or middle seat safety devices. See 54 Fed. Reg. 46257.     Why then did DOT not require lap-and-shoulder belts in these seats? We have found some indication that it thought use of lap-and-shoulder belts in rear aisle seats could cause "entry and exit problems for occupants of seating positions to the rear" by "stretch[ing] the shoulder belt across the aisleway," id., at 46258. However, DOT encouraged manufacturers to address this issue through innovation:"[I]n those cases where manufacturers are able to design and install lap/shoulder belts at seating positions adjacent to aisleways without interfering with the aisleway's purpose of allowing access to more rearward seating positions[, the agency] encourages the manufacturers to do so." 54 Fed. Reg. 46258.And there is little indication that DOT considered this matter a significant safety concern. Cf. Letter from Philip R. Recht, Chief Counsel, National Highway Traffic Safety Admin., to Roger Matoba (Dec. 28, 1994), App. to Reply Brief for Petitioners 2 ("With respect to your concerns about the safety of shoulder safety belts which cross an aisle, I note that such belts do not in fact prevent rearward passengers from exiting the vehicle. Such passengers may ... g[o] under or over the belt. They may also move the belt aside").     The more important reason why DOT did not require lap-and-shoulder belts for rear inner seats was that it thought that this requirement would not be cost-effective. The agency explained that it would be significantly more expensive for manufacturers to install lap-and-shoulder belts in rear middle and aisle seats than in seats next to the car doors. Ibid. But that fact--the fact that DOT made a negative judgment about cost effectiveness--cannot by itself show that DOT sought to forbid common-law tort suits in which a judge or jury might reach a different conclusion.     For one thing, DOT did not believe that costs would remain frozen. Rather it pointed out that costs were falling as manufacturers were "voluntarily equipping more and more of their vehicles with rear seat lap/shoulder belts." Ibid. For another thing, many, perhaps most, federal safety regulations embody some kind of cost-effectiveness judgment. While an agency could base a decision to pre-empt on its cost-effectiveness judgment, we are satisfied that the rulemaking record at issue here discloses no such pre-emptive intent. And to infer from the mere existence of such a cost-effectiveness judgment that the federal agency intends to bar States from imposing stricter standards would treat all such federal standards as if they were maximum standards, eliminating the possibility that the federal agency seeks only to set forth a minimum standard potentially supplemented through state tort law. We cannot reconcile this consequence with a statutory saving clause that foresees the likelihood of a continued meaningful role for state tort law. Supra, at 4.     Finally, the Solicitor General tells us that DOT's regulation does not pre-empt this tort suit. As in Geier, "the agency's own views should make a difference." 529 U. S., at 883."Congress has delegated to DOT authority to implement the statute; the subject matter is technical; and the relevant history and background are complex and extensive. The agency is likely to have a thorough understanding of its own regulation and its objectives and is 'uniquely qualified' to comprehend the likely impact of state requirements." Ibid.There is "no reason to suspect that the Solicitor General's representation of DOT's views reflects anything other than 'the agency's fair and considered judgment on the matter.' " Id., at 884 (quoting Auer v. Robbins, 519 U. S. 452, 462 (1997)).     Neither has DOT expressed inconsistent views on this subject. In Geier, the Solicitor General pointed out that "state tort law does not conflict with a federal 'minimum standard' merely because state law imposes a more stringent requirement." United States Brief in Geier 21 (citation omitted). And the Solicitor General explained that a standard giving manufacturers "multiple options for the design of" a device would not pre-empt a suit claiming that a manufacturer should have chosen one particular option, where "the Secretary did not determine that the availability of options was necessary to promote safety." Id., at 22; see Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae in Wood v. General Motors Corp., O. T. 1989, No. 89-46, p. 15. This last statement describes the present case.     In Geier, then, the regulation's history, the agency's contemporaneous explanation, and its consistently held interpretive views indicated that the regulation sought to maintain manufacturer choice in order to further significant regulatory objectives. Here, these same considerations indicate the contrary. We consequently conclude that, even though the state tort suit may restrict the manufacturer's choice, it does not "stan[d] as an obstacle to the accomplishment . . . of the full purposes and objectives" of federal law. Hines, 312 U. S., at 67. Thus, the regulation does not pre-empt this tort action.     The judgment of the California Court of Appeal is reversed.It is so ordered.     Justice Kagan took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.DELBERT WILLIAMSON, et al., PETITIONERS v. MAZDA MOTOR OF AMERICA, INC., et al.on writ of certiorari to the court of appeal of cali-fornia, fourth appellate district, division three[February 23, 2011]     Justice Sotomayor, concurring.     As the Court notes, this is not the first case in which the Court has encountered the express pre-emption provision and saving clause of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, 80 Stat. 718, 15 U. S. C. §1381 et seq. (1988 ed.) (recodified without substantive change at 49 U. S. C. §30101 et seq. (2006 ed. and Supp. III)). In Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861 (2000), the Court concluded that the "saving clause (like the express pre-emption provision) does not bar the ordinary working of conflict pre-emption principles," id., at 869, and therefore engaged in an implied pre-emption analysis. The majority and dissent in Geier agreed that "a court should not find pre-emption too readily in the absence of clear evidence of a conflict." Id., at 885.     I agree with the majority's resolution of this case and with its reasoning. I write separately only to emphasize the Court's rejection of an overreading of Geier that has developed since that opinion was issued.     Geier does not stand, as the California Court of Appeal, 167 Cal. App. 4th 905, 918-919, 84 Cal. Rptr. 3d 545, 555-556 (2008), other courts, and some of respondents' amici seem to believe, for the proposition that any time an agency gives manufacturers a choice between two or more options, a tort suit that imposes liability on the basis of one of the options is an obstacle to the achievement of a federal regulatory objective and may be pre-empted.** Rather, Geier turned on the fact that the agency, via Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, "deliberately sought variety--a mix of several different passive restraint systems." 529 U. S., at 878; ante, at 7. As the United States notes, "a conflict results only when the Safety Act (or regulations implementing the Safety Act) does not just set out options for compliance, but also provides that the regulated parties must remain free to choose among those options." Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 8. In other words, the mere fact that an agency regulation allows manufacturers a choice between options is insufficient to justify implied pre-emption; courts should only find pre-emption where evidence exists that an agency has a regulatory objective--e.g., obtaining a mix of passive restraint mechanisms, as in Geier--whose achievement depends on manufacturers having a choice between options. A link between a regulatory objective and the need for manufacturer choice to achieve that objective is the lynchpin of implied pre-emption when there is a saving clause.     Absent strong indications from the agency that it needs manufacturers to have options in order to achieve a "significant ... regulatory objective," ante, at 5, state tort suits are not "obstacle[s] to the accomplishment ... of the full purposes and objectives" of federal law, Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941). As the majority explains, the agency here gave no indication that its safety goals required the mixture of seatbelt types that resulted from manufacturers' ability to choose different options. Ante, at 8-12 (distinguishing the regulatory record in this case from that in Geier).     Especially in light of the "statutory saving clause that foresees the likelihood of a continued meaningful role for state tort law," ante, at 11, respondents have not carried their burden of establishing that the agency here "deliberately sought variety" to achieve greater safety, Geier, 529 U. S., at 878. Therefore, the Williamsons' tort suit does not present an obstacle to any "significant federal regulatory objective," ante, at 5, and may not be pre-empted.     For these reasons, I concur.DELBERT WILLIAMSON, et al., PETITIONERS v. MAZDA MOTOR OF AMERICA, INC., et al.on writ of certiorari to the court of appeal of cali-fornia, fourth appellate district, division three[February 23, 2011]     Justice Thomas, concurring in the judgment.     The Court concludes that the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (Safety Act) and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208 (FMVSS 208) do not pre-empt the Williamsons' state tort lawsuit. I agree. But I reach this result by a more direct route: the Safety Act's saving clause, which speaks directly to this question and answers it. See 49 U. S. C. §30103(e).I     The plain text of the Safety Act resolves this case. Congress has instructed that "[c]ompliance with a motor vehicle safety standard prescribed under this chapter does not exempt a person from liability at common law." Ibid. This saving clause "explicitly preserv[es] state common-law actions." Wyeth v. Levine, 555 U. S. ___, ___ (2009) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 18). Here, Mazda complied with FMVSS 208 when it chose to install a simple lap belt. According to Mazda, the Williamsons' lawsuit alleging that it should have installed a lap-and-shoulder seatbelt instead is pre-empted. That argument is foreclosed by the saving clause; the Williamsons' state tort action is not pre-empted.     The majority does not rely on the Safety Act's saving clause because this Court effectively read it out of the statute in Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861 (2000). In Geier, the Court interpreted the saving clause as simply cancelling out the statute's express pre-emption clause with respect to common-law tort actions. This left the Court free to consider the effect of conflict pre-emption principles on such tort actions. See id., at 869.     But it makes no sense to read the express pre-emption clause in conjunction with the saving clause. See id., at 898 (Stevens, J., dissenting). The express pre-emption clause bars States from having any safety "standard applicable to the same aspect of performance" as a federal standard unless it is "identical" to the federal one. §30103(b). That clause pre-empts States from establishing "objective rule[s] prescribed by a legislature or an administrative agency" in competition with the federal standards; it says nothing about the tort lawsuits that are the focus of the saving clause. Id., at 896.** Read independently of the express pre-emption clause, the saving clause simply means what it says: FMVSS 208 does not pre-empt state common-law actions.II     As in Geier, rather than following the plain text of the statute, the majority's analysis turns on whether the tort lawsuit here " 'stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives' " of FMVSS 208. Ante, at 5 (quoting Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941)). I have rejected purposes-and-objectives pre-emption as inconsistent with the Constitution because it turns entirely on extratextual "judicial suppositions." Wyeth, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 22); see also Haywood v. Drown, 556 U. S. ___, ___ (2009) (dissenting opinion) (slip op., at 26-27).     Pre-emption occurs "by direct operation of the Supremacy Clause," Brown v. Hotel Employees, 468 U. S. 491, 501 (1984), which "requires that pre-emptive effect be given only to those federal standards and policies that are set forth in, or necessarily follow from, the statutory text that was produced through the constitutionally required bicameral and presentment procedures." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5) (opinion of Thomas, J.). In short, pre-emption must turn on the text of a federal statute or the regulations it authorizes. See id., at ___ (slip op., at 6); see also Geier, supra, at 911 (Stevens, J., dissenting).     Purposes-and-objectives pre-emption--which by design roams beyond statutory or regulatory text--is thus wholly illegitimate. It instructs courts to pre-empt state laws based on judges' "conceptions of a policy which Congress has not expressed and which is not plainly to be inferred from the legislation which it has enacted." Hines, supra, at 75 (Stone, J., dissenting); Geier, supra, at 907 (opinion of Stevens, J.) (expressing concern about judges "running amok with our potentially boundless (and perhaps inadequately considered) [purposes-and-objectives pre-emption doctrine]"); see also Wyeth, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 13-21) (opinion of Thomas, J.) (recounting the history of the doctrine).     The majority's purposes-and-objectives pre-emption analysis displays the inherent constitutional problem with the doctrine. The Court begins with FMVSS 208, which allowed manufacturers to install either simple lap or lap-and-shoulder seatbelts in the rear aisle seat of 1993 minivans. The majority then turns to what it considers the primary issue: whether "that choice [was] a significant regulatory objective." Ante, at 8 (emphasis added). Put more plainly, the question is whether the regulators really wanted manufacturers to have a choice or did not really want them to have a choice but gave them one anyway.     To answer that question, the majority engages in a "freewheeling, extratextual, and broad evaluatio[n] of the 'purposes and objectives' " of FMVSS 208. Wyeth, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 23) (opinion of Thomas, J.). The Court wades into a sea of agency musings and Government litigating positions and fishes for what the agency may have been thinking 20 years ago when it drafted the relevant provision. After scrutinizing the 1989 Federal Register, a letter written in 1994, and the Solicitor General's present-day assurances, the Court finds that Department of Transportation liked the idea of lap-and-shoulder seatbelts in all seats, but did not require them, primarily for cost-efficiency reasons and also because of some concern for ingress-egress around the belt mounts. Ante, at 8-11. From all of this, the majority determines that although the regulators specifically and intentionally gave manufacturers a choice between types of seatbelts, that choice was not a "significant regulatory objective" and so does not pre-empt state tort lawsuits.     That the Court in Geier reached an opposite conclusion reveals the utterly unconstrained nature of purposes-and-objectives pre-emption. There is certainly "considerable similarity between this case and Geier." Ante, at 2. Just as in this case, Geier involved a choice offered to car manufacturers in FMVSS 208: whether to install airbags. Ante, at 8. And just as in this case, the Court in Geier relied on "history, the agency's contemporaneous explanation, and the Government's current understanding" to determine the significance of that choice. Ante, at 7-8. Yet the Geier Court concluded that "giving auto manufacturers a choice among different kinds of passive restraint devices was a significant objective of the federal regulation," ante, at 6, and thus found the Geiers' lawsuit pre-empted.     The dispositive difference between this case and Geier--indeed, the only difference--is the majority's "psychoanalysis" of the regulators. United States v. Public Util. Comm'n of Cal., 345 U. S. 295, 319 (1953) (Jackson, J., concurring) (describing reliance on legislative history). The majority cites no difference on the face of FMVSS 208 between the airbag choice addressed in Geier and the seatbelt choice at issue in this case.     According to the majority, to determine whether FMVSS 208 pre-empts a tort suit, courts apparently must embark on the same expedition undertaken here: sifting through the Federal Register, examining agency ruminations, and asking the Government what it currently thinks. Pre-emption is then proper if the court decides that the regulators thought the choice especially important, but not if the choice was only somewhat important. This quest roves far from the Safety Act and analyzes pre-emption based on a formless inquiry into how strongly an agency felt about the regulation it enacted 20 years ago.     "[F]reeranging speculation about what the purposes of the [regulation] must have been" is not constitutionally proper in any case. Wyeth, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 15) (opinion of Thomas, J.). The Supremacy Clause commands that the "[l]aws of the United States," not the unenacted hopes and dreams of the Department of Transportation, "shall be the supreme Law of the Land." U. S. Const., Art. VI, cl. 2. The impropriety is even more obvious here because the plain text of the Safety Act resolves this case.     For these reasons, I concur in the judgment.FOOTNOTESPetitioner Marx filed suit, alleging that General Revenue Corporation (GRC) violated the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) by harassing and falsely threatening her in order to collect on a debt. The District Court ruled against Marx and awarded GRC costs pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure (FRCP) 54(d)(1), which gives district courts discretion to award costs to prevailing defendants "[u]nless a federal statute . . . provides otherwise." Marx sought to vacate the award, arguing that the court's discretion under Rule 54(d)(1) was displaced by 15 U. S. C. §1692k(a)(3), which provides, in pertinent part, that "[o]n a finding by the court that an action under this section was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award to the defendant attorney's fees reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs." The District Court rejected Marx's argument. The Tenth Circuit affirmed, in pertinent part, agreeing that costs are allowed under the Rule and concluding that nothing in the statute's text, history, or purpose indicates that it was meant to displace the Rule.Held: Section §1692k(a)(3) is not contrary to, and, thus, does not displace a district court's discretion to award costs under, Rule 54(d)(1). Pp. 4-16.     (a) Rule 54(d)(1) gives courts discretion to award costs to prevailing parties, but this discretion can be displaced by a federal statute or FRCP that "provides otherwise," i.e., is "contrary" to Rule 54(d)(1). Contrary to the argument of Marx and the United States, as amicus, language of the original 1937 version of the Rule does not suggest that any "express provision" for costs should displace Rule 54(d)(1), regardless of whether it is contrary to the Rule. Pp. 4-7.     (b) Section 1692k(a)(3)'s language and context demonstrate that the provision is not contrary to Rule 54(d)(1). Pp. 7-15.          (1) GRC argues that since §1692k(a)(3) does not address whether costs may be awarded in an FDCPA case brought in good faith, it does not set forth a standard that is contrary to the Rule and therefore does not displace the presumption that a court has discretion to award costs. Marx and the United States concede that the statute does not expressly limit a court's discretion to award costs under the Rule, but argue that it does so by negative implication. They claim that unless §1692k(a)(3) sets forth the exclusive basis on which to award costs, the phrase "and costs" would be superfluous with Rule 54(d)(1). And the United States also argues that §1692k(a)(3)'s more specific cost statute displaces Rule 54(d)(1)'s more general rule. Pp. 7-9.          (2) The argument of Marx and the United States depends critically on whether §1692k(a)(3)'s allowance of costs creates a negative implication that costs are unavailable in any other circumstances. The expressio unius canon that they invoke does not apply "unless it is fair to suppose that Congress considered the unnamed possibility and meant to say no to it," Barnhart v. Peabody Coal Co., 537 U. S. 149, 168, and can be overcome by "contrary indications that adopting a particular rule or statute was probably not meant to signal any exclusion," United States v. Vonn, 535 U. S. 55, 65. Here, context indicates that Congress did not intend §1692k(a)(3) to foreclose courts from awarding costs under the Rule. First, under the American Rule, each litigant generally pays his own attorney's fees, but the Court has long recognized that federal courts have inherent power to award attorney's fees in a narrow set of circumstances, e.g., when a party brings an action in bad faith. The statute is thus best read as codifying a court's pre-existing authority to award both attorney's fees and costs. Next, §1692k(a)(3)'s second sentence must be understood in light of its first, which provides an award of attorney's fees and costs, but to prevailing plaintiffs. By adding "and costs" to the second sentence, Congress foreclosed the argument that defendants can only recover attorney's fees when plaintiffs bring an action in bad faith and removed any doubt that defendants may recover costs as well as attorney's fees in such cases. Finally, §1692k(a)(3)'s language sharply contrasts with that of other statutes in which Congress has placed conditions on awarding costs to prevailing defendants. See, e.g., 28 U. S. C. §1928. Pp. 9-12.          (3) Even assuming that their surplusage argument is correct, the canon against surplusage is not absolute. First, the canon "assists only where a competing interpretation gives effect to every clause and word of a statute." Microsoft Corp. v. i4i Ltd. Partnership, 564 U. S. ___, ___. Here, no interpretation of §1692k(a)(3) gives effect to every word. Second, redundancy is not unusual in statutes addressing costs. See, e.g., 12 U. S. C. §2607(d)(5). Finally, the canon is strongest when an interpretation would render superfluous another part of the same statutory scheme. Because §1692k(a)(3) is not part of Rule 54(d)(1), the force of this canon is diminished. Pp. 13-14.          (4) Lastly, contrary to the United States' claim that specific cost-shifting standards displace general ones, the context of the statute indicates that Congress was simply confirming the background presumption that courts may award to defendants attorney's fees and costs when the plaintiff brings an action in bad faith. Because Marx did not bring this suit in bad faith, the specific provision is not applicable. Pp. 14-15.668 F. 3d 1174, affirmed.     Thomas, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Scalia, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, and Alito, JJ., joined. Sotomayor, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Kagan, J., joined.Opinion of the Court?568 U. S. ____ (2013)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 11-1175OLIVEA MARX, PETITIONER v. GENERAL REVENUE CORPORATIONon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the tenth circuit[February 26, 2013]     Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court.     Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d)(1) gives district courts discretion to award costs to prevailing defendants "[u]nless a federal statute . . . provides otherwise." The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA), 91 Stat. 881, 15 U. S. C. §1692k(a)(3), provides that "[o]n a finding by the court that an action under this section was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award to the defendant attorney's fees reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs." This case presents the question whether §1692k(a)(3) "provides otherwise" than Rule 54(d)(1). We conclude that §1692k(a)(3) does not "provid[e] otherwise," and thus a district court may award costs to prevailing defendants in FDCPA cases without finding that the plaintiff brought the case in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment.I     Petitioner Olivea Marx defaulted on a student loan guaranteed by EdFund, a division of the California Student Aid Commission. In September 2008, EdFund hired respondent General Revenue Corporation (GRC) to collect the debt. One month later, Marx filed an FDCPA enforcement action against GRC.1 Marx alleged that GRC had violated the FDCPA by harassing her with phone calls several times a day and falsely threatening to garnish up to 50% of her wages and to take the money she owed directly from her bank account. Shortly after the complaint was filed, GRC made an offer of judgment under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 68 to pay Marx $1,500, plus reasonable attorney's fees and costs, to settle any claims she had against it. Marx did not respond to the offer. She subsequently amended her complaint to add a claim that GRC unlawfully sent a fax to her workplace that requested information about her employment status.     Following a 1-day bench trial, the District Court found that Marx had failed to prove any violation of the FDCPA. As the prevailing party, GRC submitted a bill of costs seeking $7,779.16 in witness fees, witness travel expenses, and deposition transcript fees. The court disallowed several items of costs and, pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d)(1), ordered Marx to pay GRC $4,543.03. Marx filed a motion to vacate the award of costs, arguing that the court lacked authority to award costs under Rules 54(d)(1) and 68(d) because 15 U. S. C. §1692k(a)(3) sets forth the exclusive basis for awarding costs in FDCPA cases.2 Section 1692k(a)(3) provides, in relevant part: "On a finding by the court that an action under this section was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award to the defendant attorney's fees reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs." Marx argued that because the court had not found that she brought the case in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, GRC was not entitled to costs. The District Court rejected Marx's argument, concluding that §1692k(a)(3) does not displace a court's discretion to award costs under Rule 54(d)(1) and that costs should also be awarded under Rule 68(d).     The Tenth Circuit affirmed but agreed only with part of the District Court's reasoning. In particular, the court disagreed that costs were allowed under Rule 68(d). 668 F. 3d 1174, 1182 (2011). It explained that "Rule 68 applies only where the district court enters judgment in favor of a plaintiff" for less than the amount of the settlement offer and not where the plaintiff loses outright. Ibid. (citing Delta Air Lines, Inc. v. August, 450 U. S. 346, 352 (1981)). Because the District Court had not entered judgment in favor of Marx, the court concluded that costs were not allowed under Rule 68(d). 668 F. 3d, at 1182. Nevertheless, the court found that costs were allowed under Rule 54(d)(1), which grants district courts discretion to award costs to prevailing parties unless a federal statute or the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure provide otherwise. Id., at 1178, 1182. After describing the "venerable" presumption that prevailing parties are entitled to costs, id., at 1179, the court concluded that nothing in the text, history, or purpose of §1692k(a)(3) indicated that it was meant to displace Rule 54(d)(1), id., at 1178-1182. Judge Lucero dissented, arguing that "[t]he only sensible reading of [§1692k(a)(3)] is that the district court may only award costs to a defendant" upon finding that the action was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment and that to read it otherwise rendered the phrase "and costs" superfluous. Id., at 1187 (emphasis in original).     We granted certiorari, 566 U. S. ___ (2012), to resolve a conflict among the Circuits regarding whether a prevailing defendant in an FDCPA case may be awarded costs where the lawsuit was not brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment. Compare 668 F. 3d, at 1182 (case below), with Rouse v. Law Offices of Rory Clark, 603 F. 3d 699, 701 (CA9 2010). We now affirm the judgment of the Tenth Circuit.II     As in all statutory construction cases, we " 'assum[e] that the ordinary meaning of [the statutory] language accurately expresses the legislative purpose.' " Hardt v. Reliance Standard Life Ins. Co., 560 U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (slip op., at 8) (quoting Gross v. FBL Financial Services, Inc., 557 U. S. 167, 175 (2009) (alteration in original)). In this case, we must construe both Rule 54(d)(1) and §1692k(a)(3) and assess the relationship between them.A     Rule 54(d)(1) is straightforward. It provides, in relevant part: "Unless a federal statute, these rules, or a court order provides otherwise, costs--other than attorney's fees--should be allowed to the prevailing party."     As the Tenth Circuit correctly recognized, Rule 54(d)(1) codifies a venerable presumption that prevailing parties are entitled to costs.3 Notwithstanding this presumption, the word "should" makes clear that the decision whether to award costs ultimately lies within the sound discretion of the district court. See Taniguchi v. Kan Pacific Saipan, Ltd., 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 4) ("Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d) gives courts the discretion to award costs to prevailing parties"). Rule 54(d)(1) also makes clear, however, that this discretion can be displaced by a federal statute or a Federal Rule of Civil Procedure that "provides otherwise."     A statute "provides otherwise" than Rule 54(d)(1) if it is "contrary" to the Rule. See 10 J. Moore, Moore's Federal Practice §54.101[1][c], p. 54-159 (3d ed. 2012) (hereinafter 10 Moore's). Because the Rule grants district courts discretion to award costs, a statute is contrary to the Rule if it limits that discretion. A statute may limit a court's discretion in several ways, and it need not expressly state that it is displacing Rule 54(d)(1) to do so. For instance, a statute providing that "plaintiffs shall not be liable for costs" is contrary to Rule 54(d)(1) because it precludes a court from awarding costs to prevailing defendants. See, e.g., 7 U. S. C. §18(d)(1) ("The petitioner shall not be liable for costs in the district court"). Similarly, a statute providing that plaintiffs may recover costs only under certain conditions is contrary to Rule 54(d) because it precludes a court from awarding costs to prevailing plaintiffs when those conditions have not been satisfied. See, e.g., 28 U. S. C. §1928 ("[N]o costs shall be included in such judgment, unless the proper disclaimer has been filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office").     Importantly, not all statutes that provide for costs are contrary to Rule 54(d)(1). A statute providing that "the court may award costs to the prevailing party," for example, is not contrary to the Rule because it does not limit a court's discretion. See 10 Moore's §54.101[1][c], at 54-159 ("A number of statutes state simply that the court may award costs in its discretion. Such a provision is not contrary to Rule 54(d)(1) and does not displace the court's discretion under the Rule").     Marx and the United States as amicus curiae suggest that any statute that specifically provides for costs displaces Rule 54(d)(1), regardless of whether it is contrary to the Rule. Brief for Petitioner 17; Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 11-12 (hereinafter Brief for United States). The United States relies on the original 1937 version of Rule 54(d)(1), which provided, " 'Except when express provision therefor is made either in a statute of the United States or in these rules, costs shall be allowed as of course to the prevailing party unless the court otherwise directs.' " Id., at 12 (quoting Rule). Though the Rules Committee updated the language of Rule 54(d)(1) in 2007, the change was "stylistic only." Advisory Committee's Notes, 28 U. S. C. App., p. 734 (2006 ed., Supp. V). Accordingly, the United States asserts that any "express provision" for costs should displace Rule 54(d)(1).     We are not persuaded, however, that the original version of Rule 54(d) should be interpreted as Marx and the United States suggest. The original language was meant to ensure that Rule 54(d) did not displace existing costs provisions that were contrary to the Rule. Under the prior language, statutes that simply permitted a court to award costs did not displace the Rule. See 6 J. Moore, Moore's Federal Practice §54.71[1], p. 54-304 (2d ed. 1996) ("[W]hen permissive language is used [in a statute regarding costs] the district court may, pursuant to Rule 54(d), exercise a sound discretion relative to the allowance of costs"). Rather, statutes had to set forth a standard for awarding costs that was different from Rule 54(d)(1) in order to displace the Rule. See Friedman v. Ganassi, 853 F. 2d 207, 210 (CA3 1988) (holding that 15 U. S. C. §77k(e) is not an "express provision" under Rule 54(d) because it does not provide an "alternative standard" for awarding taxable costs). The original version of Rule 54(d) is consistent with our conclusion that a statute must be contrary to Rule 54(d)(1) in order to displace it.4B     We now turn to whether §1692k(a)(3) is contrary to Rule 54(d)(1). The language of §1692k(a)(3) and the context surrounding it persuade us that it is not.1     The second sentence of §1692k(a)(3) provides: "On a finding by the court that an action under this section was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award to the defendant attorney's fees reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs."5     GRC contends that the statute does not address whether costs may be awarded in this case--where the plaintiff brought the case in good faith--and thus it does not set forth a standard for awarding costs that is contrary to Rule 54(d)(1). In its view, Congress intended §1692k(a)(3) to deter plaintiffs from bringing nuisance lawsuits. It, therefore, expressly provided that when plaintiffs bring an action in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award attorney's fees and costs to the defendant. The statute does address this type of case--i.e., cases in which the plaintiff brings the action in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment. But it is silent where bad faith and purpose of harassment are absent, and silence does not displace the background rule that a court has discretion to award costs.     Marx and the United States take the contrary view. They concede that the language does not expressly limit a court's discretion to award costs under Rule 54(d)(1), Brief for Petitioner 10; Brief for United States 19, but argue that it does so by negative implication. Invoking the expressio unius canon of statutory construction, they contend that by specifying that a court may award attorney's fees and costs when an action is brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, Congress intended to preclude a court from awarding fees and costs when bad faith and purpose of harassment are absent. They further argue that unless §1692k(a)(3) sets forth the exclusive basis on which a court may award costs, the phrase "and costs" would be superfluous. According to this argument, Congress would have had no reason to specify that a court may award costs when a plaintiff brings an action in bad faith if it could have nevertheless awarded costs under Rule 54(d)(1). Finally, the United States argues that §1692k(a)(3) is a more specific cost statute that displaces Rule 54(d)(1)'s more general rule.     The context surrounding §1692k(a)(3) persuades us that GRC's interpretation is correct.2     The argument of Marx and the United States depends critically on whether §1692k(a)(3)'s allowance of costs creates a negative implication that costs are unavailable in any other circumstances. The force of any negative implication, however, depends on context. We have long held that the expressio unius canon does not apply "unless it is fair to suppose that Congress considered the unnamed possibility and meant to say no to it," Barnhart v. Peabody Coal Co., 537 U. S. 149, 168 (2003), and that the canon can be overcome by "contrary indications that adopting a particular rule or statute was probably not meant to signal any exclusion," United States v. Vonn, 535 U. S. 55, 65 (2002). In this case, context persuades us that Congress did not intend §1692k(a)(3) to foreclose courts from awarding costs under Rule 54(d)(1).     First, the background presumptions governing attorney's fees and costs are a highly relevant contextual feature. As already explained, under Rule 54(d)(1) a prevailing party is entitled to recover costs from the losing party unless a federal statute, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, or a court order "provides otherwise." The opposite presumption exists with respect to attorney's fees. Under the "bedrock principle known as the ' "American Rule," ' " "[e]ach litigant pays his own attorney's fees, win or lose, unless a statute or contract provides otherwise." Hardt, 560 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9) (quoting Ruckelshaus v. Sierra Club, 463 U. S. 680, 683 (1983)). Notwithstanding the American Rule, however, we have long recognized that federal courts have inherent power to award attorney's fees in a narrow set of circumstances, including when a party brings an action in bad faith. See Chambers v. NASCO, Inc., 501 U. S. 32, 45-46 (1991) (explaining that a court has inherent power to award attorney's fees to a party whose litigation efforts directly benefit others, to sanction the willful disobedience of a court order, and to sanction a party who has acted in bad faith, vexatiously, wantonly, or for oppressive reasons); Alyeska Pipeline Service Co. v. Wilderness Society, 421 U. S. 240, 257-259 (1975) (same).     It is undisputed that §1692k(a)(3) leaves the background rules for attorney's fees intact. The statute provides that when the plaintiff brings an action in bad faith, the court may award attorney's fees to the defendant. But, as noted, a court has inherent power to award fees based on a litigant's bad faith even without §1692k(a)(3). See Chambers, supra, at 45-46. Because §1692k(a)(3) codifies the background rule for attorney's fees, it is dubious to infer congressional intent to override the background rule with respect to costs. The statute is best read as codifying a court's pre-existing authority to award both attorney's fees and costs.6     Next, the second sentence of §1692k(a)(3) must be understood in light of the sentence that precedes it.7 The first sentence of §1692k(a)(3) provides that defendants who violate the FDCPA are liable for the plaintiff's attorney's fees and costs. The second sentence of §1692k(a)(3) similarly provides that plaintiffs who bring an action in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment may be liable for the defendant's fees and costs.     If Congress had excluded "and costs" in the second sentence, plaintiffs might have argued that the expression of costs in the first sentence and the exclusion of costs in the second meant that defendants could only recover attorney's fees when plaintiffs bring an action in bad faith. By adding "and costs" to the second sentence, Congress foreclosed that argument, thereby removing any doubt that defendants may recover costs as well as attorney's fees when plaintiffs bring suits in bad faith. See Ali v. Federal Bureau of Prisons, 552 U. S. 214, 226 (2008) (explaining that a phrase is not superfluous if used to "remove . . . doubt" about an issue); Fort Stewart Schools v. FLRA, 495 U. S. 641, 646 (1990) (explaining that "technically unnecessary" examples may have been "inserted out of an abundance of caution"). The fact that there might have been a negative implication that costs are precluded, depending on whether Congress included or excluded the phrase "and costs," weighs against giving effect to any implied limitation.     Finally, the language in §1692k(a)(3) sharply contrasts with other statutes in which Congress has placed conditions on awarding costs to prevailing defendants. See, e.g., 28 U. S. C. §1928 ("[N]o costs shall be included in such judgment, unless the proper disclaimer has been filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office prior to the commencement of the action" (emphasis added)); 42 U. S. C. §1988(b) ("[I]n any action brought against a judicial officer . . . such officer shall not be held liable for any costs . . . unless such action was clearly in excess of such officer's jurisdiction" (emphasis added)).     Although Congress need not use explicit language to limit a court's discretion under Rule 54(d)(1), its use of explicit language in other statutes cautions against inferring a limitation in §1692k(a)(3). These statutes confirm that Congress knows how to limit a court's discretion under Rule 54(d)(1) when it so desires. See Small v. United States, 544 U. S. 385, 398 (2005) (Thomas, J., dissenting) (explaining that "Congress' explicit use of [language] in other provisions shows that it specifies such restrictions when it wants to do so"). Had Congress intended the second sentence of §1692k(a)(3) to displace Rule 54(d)(1), it could have easily done so by using the word "only" before setting forth the condition "[o]n a finding by the court that an action . . . was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment . . . ."83     As the above discussion suggests, we also are not persuaded by Marx's objection that our interpretation renders the phrase "and costs" superfluous. As noted, supra, at 11, the phrase "and costs" would not be superfluous if Congress included it to remove doubt that defendants may recover costs when plaintiffs bring suits in bad faith. But even assuming that our interpretation renders the phrase "and costs" superfluous, that would not alter our conclusion. The canon against surplusage is not an absolute rule, see Arlington Central School Dist. Bd. of Ed. v. Murphy, 548 U. S. 291, 299, n. 1 (2006) ("While it is generally presumed that statutes do not contain surplusage, instances of surplusage are not unknown"); Connecticut Nat. Bank v. Germain, 503 U. S. 249, 253 (1992) ("Redundancies across statutes are not unusual events in drafting . . . "), and it has considerably less force in this case.     First, the canon against surplusage "assists only where a competing interpretation gives effect to every clause and word of a statute." Microsoft Corp. v. i4i Ltd. Partnership, 564 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 12) (internal quotation marks omitted). But, in this case, no interpretation of §1692k(a)(3) gives effect to every word. Both Marx and the United States admit that a court has inherent power to award attorney's fees to a defendant when the plaintiff brings an action in bad faith. Because there was, consequently, no need for Congress to specify that courts have this power, §1692k(a)(3) is superfluous insofar as it addresses attorney's fees. In light of this redundancy, we are not overly concerned that the reference to costs may be redundant as well.     Second, redundancy is "hardly unusual" in statutes addressing costs. See id., at ___ (slip op., at 13). Numerous statutes overlap with Rule 54(d)(1). See, e.g., 12 U. S. C. §2607(d)(5) ("[T]he court may award to the prevailing party the court costs of the action"); §5565(b) (2006 ed., Supp. V) ("the [Consumer Financial Protection] Bureau . . . may recover its costs in connection with prosecuting such action if [it] . . . is the prevailing party in the action"); 15 U. S. C. §6104(d) (2006 ed.) ("The court . . . may award costs of suit and reasonable fees for attorneys and expert witnesses to the prevailing party"); §7706(f)(4) ("In the case of any successful action . . . the court, in its discretion, may award the costs of the action"); §7805(b)(3) ("[T]he court may award to the prevailing party costs"); §8131(2) (2006 ed., Supp. V) ("The court may also, in its discretion, award costs and attorneys fees to the prevailing party"); 29 U. S. C. §431(c) (2006 ed.) ("The court . . . may, in its discretion . . . allow a reasonable attorney's fee to be paid by the defendant, and costs of the action"); 42 U. S. C. §3612(p) ("[T]he court . . . in its discretion, may allow the prevailing party . . . a reasonable attorney's fee and costs"); §3613(c)(2) ("[T]he court, in its discretion, may allow the prevailing party . . . a reasonable attorney's fee and costs"); 47 U. S. C. §551(f)(2) ("[T]he court may award . . . other litigation costs reasonably incurred").     Finally, the canon against surplusage is strongest when an interpretation would render superfluous another part of the same statutory scheme. Cf. United States v. Jicarilla Apache Nation, 564 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 22) (" 'As our cases have noted in the past, we are hesitant to adopt an interpretation of a congressional enactment which renders superfluous another portion of that same law' " (quoting Mackey v. Lanier Collection Agency & Service, Inc., 486 U. S. 825, 837 (1988))). Because §1692k(a)(3) is not part of Rule 54(d)(1), the force of this canon is diminished.4     Lastly, the United States contends that §1692k(a)(3) "establishes explicit cost-shifting standards that displace Rule 54(d)(1)'s more general default standard." Brief for United States 17; see also EC Term of Years Trust v. United States, 550 U. S. 429, 433 (2007) (" '[A] precisely drawn, detailed statute pre-empts more general remedies' " (quoting Brown v. GSA, 425 U. S. 820, 834 (1976))). Were we to accept the argument that §1692k(a)(3) has a negative implication, this argument might be persuasive. But the context of §1692k(a)(3) indicates that Congress was simply confirming the background rule that courts may award to defendants attorney's fees and costs when the plaintiff brings an action in bad faith. The statute speaks to one type of case--the case of the bad-faith and harassing plaintiff. Because Marx did not bring this suit in bad faith, this case does not "fal[l] within the ambit of the more specific provision." Brief for United States 13; see also RadLAX Gateway Hotel, LLC v. Amalgamated Bank, 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 9) ("When the conduct at issue falls within the scope of both provisions, the specific presumptively governs . . ." (emphasis in original)).9 Accordingly, this canon is inapplicable.III     Because we conclude that the second sentence of §1692k(a)(3) is not contrary to Rule 54(d)(1), and, thus, does not displace a district court's discretion to award costs under the Rule, we need not address GRC's alternative argument that costs were required under Rule 68.     The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.It is so ordered.Sotomayor, J., dissenting?568 U. S. ____ (2013)No. 11-1175OLIVEA MARX, PETITIONER v. GENERAL REVENUE CORPORATIONon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the tenth circuit[February 26, 2013]     Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Kagan joins, dissenting.     Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d)(1) is a default standard that grants district courts discretion to award litigation costs to a prevailing party. This default, however, gives way when a federal statute includes a costs provision that "provides otherwise." The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA), 91 Stat. 874, 15 U. S. C. §1692 et seq., contains a costs provision, §1692k(a)(3), and it "provides otherwise." That is apparent from the statute's plain language, which limits a court's discretion to award costs to prevailing defendants to cases "brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment." In reaching the opposite conclusion, the Court ignores the plain meaning of both the FDCPA and Rule 54(d)(1) and renders the statutory language at issue in this case meaningless. I respectfully dissent.I     The majority correctly recognizes, see ante, at 4, the fundamental principle of statutory construction that we begin "with the language of the statute itself." United States v. Ron Pair Enterprises, Inc., 489 U. S. 235, 241 (1989); Ingalls Shipbuilding, Inc. v. Director, Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, 519 U. S. 248, 255 (1997); Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S. 470, 485 (1917). We presume that Congress "means in a statute what it says there," Connecticut Nat. Bank v. Germain, 503 U. S. 249, 254 (1992), and "where . . . the statute's language is plain, the sole function of the courts is to enforce it according to its terms." Ron Pair, 489 U. S., at 241 (internal quotation marks omitted). This basic tenet is the appropriate starting point for interpreting both Rule 54(d)(1) and §1692k(a)(3). After invoking this principle, however, the majority casts it aside entirely in interpreting the statute and the Rule.A     Rule 54(d)(1) states, as relevant here, that "[u]nless a federal statute . . . provides otherwise, costs--other than attorney's fees--should be allowed to the prevailing party." The first question is what it means for a statute to "provid[e] otherwise" than Rule 54(d)(1).     Because the phrase "provides otherwise" is not defined in the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, we look to its ordinary meaning. Asgrow Seed Co. v. Winterboer, 513 U. S. 179, 187 (1995). In common usage, to "provide otherwise" means to "make a . . . stipulation" that is "differen[t]." Webster's Third New International Dictionary 1598, 1827 (2002) (Webster's Third) (defining "provide" and "otherwise," respectively); see Random House Dictionary of the English Language 1372, 1556 (2d ed. 1987) (Random House) ("to arrange for or stipulate" "[i]n another manner"); 10 Oxford English Dictionary 984 (2d ed. 1989) (Oxford Dictionary); 12 id., at 713 ("to stipulate" "[i]n another way . . . ; in a different manner"). This reading of the plain text is confirmed by the original 1937 codification of the Rule, which made clear that any "express provision" relating to costs in a statute is sufficient to displace the default.1     Accordingly, to displace Rule 54(d)(1), a federal statute need only address costs in a way different from, but not necessarily inconsistent with, the default.2 The reason is straightforward. If Congress has enacted a provision with respect to costs in a statute, there is no longer any need for the default, so it gives way. This design of the Rule is sensible, because many statutes contain specific costs provisions. 10 Moore's Federal Practice §54.101[1][c], p. 54-160 (3d ed. 2012) (noting that such statutes "are far too numerous to list comprehensively"). Rule 54(d)(1) is therefore consistent with the canon of statutory interpretation that "a precisely drawn, detailed statute pre-empts more general remedies." Hinck v. United States, 550 U. S. 501, 506 (2007); Crawford Fitting Co. v. J. T. Gibbons, Inc., 482 U. S. 437, 445 (1987); United States v. Erika, Inc., 456 U. S. 201, 208 (1982).     While purporting to interpret the "ordinary meaning" of Rule 54(d)(1), ante, at 4, the majority immediately abandons the ordinary meaning. The majority concludes that a statute provides otherwise for purposes of Rule 54(d)(1) only if it is "contrary" to the default. Ante, at 5. But the majority does not cite even a single dictionary definition in support of that reading, despite the oft-cited principle that a definition widely reflected in dictionaries generally governs over other possible meanings.3 Lacking any dictionary support for its interpretation, the majority relies instead upon a treatise published nearly 60 years after the Rule's adoption. See ante, 6-7 (citing 6 J. Moore, Moore's Federal Practice, p. 54-304 (2d ed. 1996)).     "Otherwise" means "different." Webster's Third 1518; see supra, at 2-3. The majority's preferred term of art, "contrary," sets a higher bar; it signifies "the opposite," or "a proposition, fact, or condition incompatible with another." Webster's Third 495 (emphasis added). See also American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language 399 (5th ed. 2011) ("Opposed, as in character or purpose"); 3 Oxford Dictionary 844 ("Opposed in nature or tendency; diametrically different, extremely unlike"); Random House 442 ("[O]pposite in nature or character; diametrically or mutually opposed").     Indeed, the majority's reading does not square with the everyday meaning of "otherwise." Consider, for example, a medication labeled with the instruction, "take twice a day unless otherwise directed." If a doctor advises her patient to take the medicine "in the morning," the patient would understand her to mean that he should take the medicine once a day, each morning. Although the instruction to take the medication in the morning is not incompatible with taking it twice a day--it could be taken in the evening as well--an ordinary English speaker would interpret "otherwise" to mean that the doctor's more specific instructions entirely supersede what is printed on the bottle. Rule 54(d)(1) is just the same: Its default is supplanted whenever Congress provides more specific instructions, not only when they are diametrically opposed to it.B1     Thus, the straightforward question in this case is whether §1692k(a)(3) implements a "different" standard with respect to costs than Rule 54(d)(1), and so "provides otherwise." As relevant, §1692k(a)(3) states: "On a finding by the court that an action under this section was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the court may award to the defendant attorney's fees reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs."     It is readily apparent that this provision is different from the default of Rule 54(d)(1). In §1692k(a)(3), Congress described with specificity a single circumstance in which costs may be awarded. Far from merely restating a district court's discretion to award costs, this provision imposes a prerequisite to the exercise of that discretion: a finding by the court that an action was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment.     Because the text is plain, there is no need to proceed any further. Even so, relevant canons of statutory interpretation lend added support to reading §1692k(a)(3) as having a negative implication. That reading accords with the expressio unius, exclusio alterius canon, which instructs that when Congress includes one possibility in a statute, it excludes another by implication. See Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Echazabal, 536 U. S. 73, 80-81 (2002). This rule reinforces what the text makes clear. By limiting a court's discretion to award costs to cases brought in bad faith or for the purpose of harassment, Congress foreclosed the award of costs in other circumstances.4     Petitioner's interpretation of the statute is also strongly favored by the rule that statutes should be read to avoid superfluity. Under this "most basic of interpretative canons, . . . ' "[a] statute should be constructed so that effect is given to all of its provisions, so that no part will be inoperative or superfluous, void or insignificant." ' " Corley v. United States, 556 U. S. 303, 314 (2009) (quoting Hibbs v. Winn, 542 U. S. 88, 101 (2004)). Respondent's reading, as it mostly acknowledges, renders the entire sentence meaningless because it reiterates powers that federal courts already possess with respect to both costs and attorney's fees. See Brief for Respondent 22-24.     The majority rejects this argument, citing the rule that this canon " 'assists only where a competing interpretation gives effect to every clause and word of a statute.' " Ante, at 13 (quoting Microsoft Corp. v. i4i Ltd. Partnership, 564 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 12)). In its view, neither of the available interpretations can eliminate superfluity because the attorney's fees provision is redundant under any reading. Ante, at 13. But the canon against superfluity surely counsels against an interpretation that renders the entire provision at issue superfluous when a competing interpretation would at least render part of the provision meaningful. Nor does the majority's observation that redundancy is " 'hardly unusual,' " ante, at 14, in provisions relating to costs make the canon inapplicable. While Congress sometimes drafts redundant language with respect to costs, Congress did not do so in §1692(a)(3).5 Instead, it drafted specific language that permits a court to award costs only on the satisfaction of a condition.     Interpreting §1692k(1)(3) as having a negative implication is consistent with our construction of another statute that includes similar language. In Cooper Industries, Inc. v. Aviall Services, Inc., 543 U. S. 157, 166 (2004) (opinion for the Court by Thomas, J.), we considered a provision in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U. S. C. §9613(f)(1) that provided: "[a]ny person may seek contribution . . . during . . . any civil action under section 9606 of this title" (emphasis added). We rejected the argument that the word "may" indicated that "during a civil action" was one but not the exclusive circumstance in which the right of contribution was available. 543 U. S., at 166. We instead adopted the natural reading of the text, holding that a party's ability to seek contribution was limited by the phrase "during any civil action" and that contribution was only available while a lawsuit is pending. Ibid. The same logic applies here, because §1692k(a)(3) imposes a closely analogous condition on a court's discretion to award costs.2      The first sentence of §1692k(a)(3) underscores that Congress implemented a different rule than Rule 54(d)(1). That sentence provides that a debt collector who violates the FDCPA is "liable to" a prevailing plaintiff for "the costs of the action, together with a reasonable attorney's fee as determined by the court." This sentence makes a losing defendant always liable for the "costs of the action," which is a clear departure from the Rule 54(d)(1) discretionary default. Cf. Taniguchi v. Kan Pacific Saipan, Ltd., 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 4). Because Congress deviated from Rule 54(d)(1) in the first sentence of §1692k(a)(3), the most reasonable reading is that the sentence that immediately follows, which states the rule for prevailing defendants, takes a similar path.     The majority believes that its reading of the costs provision follows from the first sentence as well, but for a different reason. Ante, at 11-12. It suggests that if Congress had not included costs in the second sentence, a plaintiff might have been able to argue that the inclusion of costs in the first sentence and the exclusion of costs in the second indicated that defendants could recover only fees when an action is brought in bad faith. The majority then speculates that Congress included costs in the second sentence to foreclose that argument.     The text of the previous sentence makes plain, however, that the second sentence departs from the Rule 54(d)(1) default, and the majority offers no evidence in support of its supposition that Congress intended a different meaning.6 Moreover, I see no basis for invoking potential confusion or indulging in speculation to explain away the words Congress chose. Ante, at 11-12. Some Members of the majority have expressed doubt about the relevance of legislative history, claiming that relying upon it is analogous to "entering a crowded cocktail party and looking . . . for one's friends." Conroy v. Aniskoff, 507 U. S. 511, 519 (1993) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment). But speculating whole cloth about congressional intent, as the majority does, is surely more problematic. The majority is saved the trouble of having to look for its friends at the party; it simply invites them.II     Reduced to its essence, the majority's analysis turns on reading §1692k(a)(3) in the context of what it calls the "venerable presumption" that prevailing parties are entitled to costs. See ante, at 4. Even if it were appropriate to consider a background presumption rather than reading the plain text at issue, the majority's characterization of the presumption is at best incomplete.     First, the Court's suggestion that the presumption regarding costs is a "venerable" one in American law is an overstatement. Ibid. It is true, as the majority points out, that prior to the federal rules, "prevailing parties were entitled to costs as of right in actions at law while courts had discretion to award costs in equity proceedings." Ante, at 4, n. 3; see Wright & Miller §2665, at 199. But the doctrine governing costs at law carved out an important exception for statutory provisions that set forth a different rule.7 Where there was such a statute, courts would simply apply it. In its assessment of the background principles underlying its approach, the majority glosses over the longstanding expectation that Congress often enacts different rules with respect to costs, and when it does, these rules govern.     Second, Rule 54(d)(1) embraces this long-recognized exception because it specifies that a statute can displace its default rule. To repeat, Rule 54(d)(1) merely enacts a default standard that applies unless, among other things, a statute or rule "provides otherwise." Here, for the reasons explained, Congress enacted exactly such a statute. That is clear from the text, because §1692k(a)(3) conditions the award of costs on the satisfaction of a condition, and because the previous sentence of the same provision breaks from the default.*??*??*     The plain text of Rule 54(d)(1) and §1692k(a)(3) dictates the result in this case. Accordingly, I would reverse the Tenth Circuit and hold that §1692k(a)(3) "provides otherwise" than Rule 54(d)(1), such that a district court cannot award costs to a prevailing defendant in an FDCPA action except upon a showing that the action was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment. I respectfully dissent.FOOTNOTESConsumer complaints about abuses of telephone technology--for example, computerized calls to private homes--prompted Congress to pass the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (TCPA or Act), 47 U. S. C. §227. Congress determined that federal legislation was needed because telemarketers, by operating interstate, were escaping state-law prohibitions on intrusive nuisance calls. The Act bans certain invasive telemarketing practices and directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to prescribe implementing regulations. It authorizes States to bring civil actions to enjoin prohibited practices and recover damages on their residents' behalf, 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(1) (Supp. 2011), and provides that jurisdiction over these state-initiated suits lies exclusively in the U. S. district courts, §227(g)(2). It also permits a private person to seek redress for violations of the Act or regulations "in an appropriate court of [a] State," "if [such an action is] otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of [that] State." 47 U. S. C. §§227(b)(3), (c)(5).          Petitioner Mims filed a damages action in Federal District Court, alleging that respondent Arrow, seeking to collect a debt, violated the TCPA by repeatedly using an automatic telephone dialing system or prerecorded or artificial voice to call Mims's cellular phone without his consent. Mims invoked the court's "federal question" jurisdiction, i.e., its authority to adjudicate claims "arising under the . . . laws . . . of the United States," 28 U. S. C. §1331. The District Court, affirmed by the Eleventh Circuit, dismissed Mims's complaint for want of subject-matter jurisdiction, concluding that the TCPA had vested jurisdiction over private actions exclusively in state courts.Held: The TCPA's permissive grant of jurisdiction to state courts does not deprive the U. S. district courts of federal-question jurisdiction over private TCPA suits. Pp. 7-18.     (a) Because federal law creates the right of action and provides the rules of decision, Mims's TCPA claim, in §1331's words, plainly "aris[es] under" the "laws . . . of the United States." Arrow agrees that this action arises under federal law, but urges that Congress vested exclusive adjudicatory authority over private TCPA actions in state courts. In cases "arising under" federal law, there is a presumption of concurrent state-court jurisdiction, rebuttable if "Congress affirmatively ousts the state courts of jurisdiction over a particular federal claim." Tafflin v. Levitt, 493 U. S. 455, 458-459. Arrow acknowledges the presumption, but maintains that §1331 creates no converse presumption in favor of federal-court jurisdiction. Instead, Arrow urges, the TCPA, a later, more specific statute, displaces §1331, an earlier, more general prescription.     Section 1331 is not swept away so easily. The principle that district courts possess federal-question jurisdiction under §1331 when federal law creates a private right of action and furnishes the substantive rules of decision endures unless Congress divests federal courts of their §1331 adjudicatory authority. See, e.g., Verizon Md. Inc. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of Md., 535 U. S. 635, 642. Accordingly, the District Court retains §1331 jurisdiction over Mims's complaint unless the TCPA, expressly or by fair implication, excludes federal-court adjudication. See id., at 644. Pp. 7-10.     (b) Arrow's arguments do not persuade this Court that Congress eliminated §1331 jurisdiction over private TCPA actions. Title 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3)'s language may be state-court oriented, but "the grant of jurisdiction to one court does not, of itself, imply that the jurisdiction is to be exclusive," United States v. Bank of New York & Trust Co., 296 U. S. 463, 479. Nothing in §227(b)(3)'s permissive language makes state-court jurisdiction exclusive, or otherwise purports to oust federal courts of their §1331 jurisdiction. The provision does not state that a private plaintiff may bring a TCPA action "only" or "exclusively" in state court. In contrast, 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(2) (Supp. 2011) vests "exclusive jurisdiction" over state-initiated TCPA suits in the federal courts. Section 227(g)(2)'s exclusivity prescription "reinforce[s] the conclusion that [47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3)'s] silence . . . leaves the jurisdictional grant of §1331 untouched. For where otherwise applicable jurisdiction was meant to be excluded, it was excluded expressly." Verizon Md., 535 U. S., at 644.     Arrow argues that Congress had no reason to provide for a private action "in an appropriate [state] court," §227(b)(3), if it did not mean to make the state forum exclusive, for state courts would have concurrent jurisdiction even if Congress had said nothing at all. But, as already noted, Congress had simultaneously made federal-court jurisdiction exclusive in TCPA enforcement actions brought by state authorities, see 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(2) (Supp. 2011), and may simply have wanted to avoid any argument that federal jurisdiction was also exclusive for private actions. Moreover, by providing that private actions may be brought in state court "if otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of [the] State," 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3), Congress arguably gave States leeway they would otherwise lack to decide whether to entertain TCPA claims.     Arrow further asserts that making state-court jurisdiction over §227(b)(3) claims exclusive serves Congress' objective of enabling States to control telemarketers whose interstate operations evaded state law. Even so, jurisdiction conferred by 28 U. S. C. §1331 should hold firm against "mere implication flowing from subsequent legislation." Colorado River Water Conservation Dist. v. United States, 424 U. S. 800, 808, 809, n. 15. Furthermore, had Congress sought only to fill a gap in the States' enforcement capabilities, it could have provided that out-of-state telemarketing calls directed into a State would be subject to the receiving State's laws. Instead, Congress enacted detailed, uniform, federal substantive prescriptions and provided for a regulatory regime administered by a federal agency.     Arrow's reliance on a statement by Senator Hollings, the TCPA's sponsor, is misplaced. The remarks nowhere mention federal-court jurisdiction or otherwise suggest that 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3) is intended to divest federal courts of authority over TCPA claims. Even if Hollings and other TCPA supporters expected private actions to proceed solely in state courts, their expectation would not control this Court's judgment on §1331's compass. Arrow's arguments that federal courts will be inundated by $500-per-violation TCPA claims or that defendants could use federal-court removal to force small-claims-court plaintiffs to abandon suit seem more imaginary than real. Pp. 10-18.421 Fed. Appx. 920, reversed and remanded.     Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Opinion of the Court?565 U. S. ____ (2012)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 10-1195MARCUS D. MIMS, PETITIONER v. ARROW FINANCIAL SERVICES, LLCon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit[January 18, 2012]     Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.     This case concerns enforcement, through private suits, of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (TCPA or Act), 47 U. S. C. §227. Voluminous consumer complaints about abuses of telephone technology--for example, computerized calls dispatched to private homes--prompted Congress to pass the TCPA. Congress determined that federal legislation was needed because telemarketers, by operating interstate, were escaping state-law prohibitions on intrusive nuisance calls. The Act bans certain practices invasive of privacy and directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC or Commission) to prescribe implementing regulations. It authorizes States to bring civil actions to enjoin prohibited practices and to recover damages on their residents' behalf. The Commission must be notified of such suits and may intervene in them. Jurisdiction over state-initiated TCPA suits, Congress provided, lies exclusively in the U. S. district courts. Congress also provided for civil actions by private parties seeking redress for violations of the TCPA or of the Commission's implementing regulations.     Petitioner Marcus D. Mims, complaining of multiple violations of the Act by respondent Arrow Financial Services, LLC (Arrow), a debt-collection agency, commenced an action for damages against Arrow in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. Mims invoked the court's "federal question" jurisdiction, i.e., its authority to adjudicate claims "arising under the . . . laws . . . of the United States," 28 U. S. C. §1331. The District Court, affirmed by the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, dismissed Mims's complaint for want of subject-matter jurisdiction. Both courts relied on Congress' specification, in the TCPA, that a private person may seek redress for violations of the Act (or of the Commission's regulations thereunder) "in an appropriate court of [a] State," "if [such an action is] otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of [that] State." 47 U. S. C. §§227(b)(3), (c)(5).     The question presented is whether Congress' provision for private actions to enforce the TCPA renders state courts the exclusive arbiters of such actions. We have long recognized that "[a] suit arises under the law that creates the cause of action." American Well Works Co. v. Layne & Bowler Co., 241 U. S. 257, 260 (1916). Beyond doubt, the TCPA is a federal law that both creates the claim Mims has brought and supplies the substantive rules that will govern the case. We find no convincing reason to read into the TCPA's permissive grant of jurisdiction to state courts any barrier to the U. S. district courts' exercise of the general federal-question jurisdiction they have possessed since 1875. See Act of Mar. 3, 1875, §1, 18 Stat. 470; 13D C. Wright, A. Miller, E. Cooper, & R. Freer, Federal Practice and Procedure §3561, p. 163 (3d ed. 2008) (hereinafter Wright & Miller). We hold, therefore, that federal and state courts have concurrent jurisdiction over private suits arising under the TCPA.IA     In enacting the TCPA, Congress made several findings relevant here. "Unrestricted telemarketing," Congress determined, "can be an intrusive invasion of privacy." TCPA, 105 Stat. 2394, note following 47 U. S. C. §227 (Congressional Findings) (internal quotation marks omitted). In particular, Congress reported, "[m]any consumers are outraged over the proliferation of intrusive, nuisance [telemarketing] calls to their homes." Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). "[A]utomated or prerecorded telephone calls" made to private residences, Congress found, were rightly regarded by recipients as "an invasion of privacy." Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). Although over half the States had enacted statutes restricting telemarketing, Congress believed that federal law was needed because "telemarketers [could] evade [state-law] prohibitions through interstate operations." Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). See also S. Rep. No. 102-178, p. 3 (1991) ("[B]ecause States do not have jurisdiction over interstate calls[,] [m]any States have expressed a desire for Federal legislation . . . .").1     Subject to exceptions not pertinent here, the TCPA principally outlaws four practices. First, the Act makes it unlawful to use an automatic telephone dialing system or an artificial or prerecorded voice message, without the prior express consent of the called party, to call any emergency telephone line, hospital patient, pager, cellular telephone, or other service for which the receiver is charged for the call. See 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(1)(A). Sec-ond, the TCPA forbids using artificial or prerecorded voice messages to call residential telephone lines without prior express consent. §227(b)(1)(B). Third, the Act proscribes sending unsolicited advertisements to fax machines. §227(b)(1)(C). Fourth, it bans using automatic telephone dialing systems to engage two or more of a business' telephone lines simultaneously. §227(b)(1)(D).2     The TCPA delegates authority to the FCC to ban artificial and prerecorded voice calls to businesses, §227(b)(2)(A), and to exempt particular types of calls from the law's requirements, §§227(b)(2)(B), (C). The Act also directs the FCC to prescribe regulations to protect the privacy of residential telephone subscribers, possibly through the creation of a national "do not call" system. §227(c).3     Congress provided complementary means of enforcing the Act. State Attorneys General may "bring a civil action on behalf of [State] residents," if the Attorney General "has reason to believe that any person has engaged . . . in a pattern or practice" of violating the TCPA or FCC regulations thereunder. 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(1) (Supp. 2011). "The district courts of the United States . . . have exclusive jurisdiction" over all TCPA actions brought by State Attorneys General. §227(g)(2). The Commission may intervene in such suits. §227(g)(3).4     Title 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3), captioned "Private right of action," provides:     "A person or entity may, if otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of a State, bring in an appropriate court of that State--     "(A) an action based on a violation of this subsection or the regulations prescribed under this subsection to enjoin such violation,     "(B) an action to recover for actual monetary loss from such a violation, or to receive $500 in damages for each such violation, whichever is greater, or     "(C) both such actions."If the court finds that the defendant willfully or knowingly violated this subsection or the regulations prescribed under this subsection, the court may, in its discretion, increase the amount of the award to an amount equal to not more than 3 times the amount available under subparagraph (B) of this paragraph."A similar provision authorizes a private right of action for a violation of the FCC's implementing regulations.5B     Mims, a Florida resident, alleged that Arrow, seeking to collect a debt, repeatedly used an automatic telephone dialing system or prerecorded or artificial voice to call Mims's cellular phone without his consent. Commencing suit in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida, Mims charged that Arrow "willfully or knowingly violated the TCPA." App. 14. He sought declaratory relief, a permanent injunction, and damages. Id., at 18-19.     The District Court held that it lacked subject-matter jurisdiction over Mims's TCPA claim. Under Eleventh Circuit precedent, the District Court explained, federal-question jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. §1331 was unavailable "because Congress vested jurisdiction over [private actions under] the TCPA exclusively in state courts." Civ. No. 09-22347 (SD Fla., Apr. 1, 2010), App. to Pet. for Cert. 4a-5a (citing Nicholson v. Hooters of Augusta, Inc., 136 F. 3d 1287 (CA11 1998)). Adhering to Circuit precedent, the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit affirmed. 421 Fed. Appx. 920, 921 (2011) (quoting Nicholson, 136 F. 3d, at 1287-1288 ("Congress granted state courts exclusive jurisdiction over private actions under the [TCPA].")).     We granted certiorari, 564 U. S. ___ (2011), to resolve a split among the Circuits as to whether Congress granted state courts exclusive jurisdiction over private actions brought under the TCPA. Compare Murphey v. Lanier, 204 F. 3d 911, 915 (CA9 2000) (U. S. district courts lack federal-question jurisdiction over private TCPA actions), ErieNet, Inc. v. Velocity Net, Inc., 156 F. 3d 513, 519 (CA3 1998) (same), Foxhall Realty Law Offices, Inc. v. Telecommunications Premium Servs., Ltd., 156 F. 3d 432, 434 (CA2 1998) (same), Nicholson, 136 F. 3d, at 1287-1288, Chair King, Inc. v. Houston Cellular Corp., 131 F. 3d 507, 514 (CA5 1997) (same), and International Science & Technology Inst. v. Inacom Communications, Inc., 106 F. 3d 1146, 1158 (CA4 1997) (same), with Charvat v. EchoStar Satellite, LLC, 630 F. 3d 459, 463-465 (CA6 2010) (U. S. district courts have federal-question jurisdiction over private TCPA actions), Brill v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc., 427 F. 3d 446, 447 (CA7 2005) (same), and ErieNet, 156 F. 3d, at 521 (Alito, J., dissenting) (same). We now hold that Congress did not deprive federal courts of federal-question jurisdiction over private TCPA suits.II     Federal courts, though "courts of limited jurisdiction," Kokkonen v. Guardian Life Ins. Co. of America, 511 U. S. 375, 377 (1994), in the main "have no more right to decline the exercise of jurisdiction which is given, then to usurp that which is not given." Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264 (1821). Congress granted federal courts general federal-question jurisdiction in 1875. See Act of Mar. 3, 1875, §1, 18 Stat. 470.6 As now codified, the law provides: "The district courts shall have original jurisdiction of all civil actions arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States." 28 U. S. C. §1331. The statute originally included an amount-in-controversy requirement, set at $500. See Act of Mar. 3, 1875, §1, 18 Stat. 470. Recognizing the responsibility of federal courts to decide claims, large or small, arising under federal law, Congress in 1980 eliminated the amount-in-controversy requirement in federal-question (but not diversity) cases. See Federal Question Jurisdictional Amendments Act of 1980, 94 Stat. 2369 (amending 28 U. S. C. §1331). See also H. R. Rep. No. 96-1461, p. 1 (1980).7 Apart from deletion of the amount-in-controversy requirement, the general federal-question provision has remained essentially unchanged since 1875. See 13D Wright & Miller 163.     Because federal law creates the right of action and provides the rules of decision, Mims's TCPA claim, in 28 U. S. C. §1331's words, plainly "aris[es] under" the "laws . . . of the United States." As already noted, supra, at 2, "[a] suit arises under the law that creates the cause of action." American Well Works, 241 U. S., at 260. Although courts have described this formulation as "more useful for inclusion than for . . . exclusion," Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Thompson, 478 U. S. 804, 809, n. 5 (1986) (quoting T. B. Harms Co. v. Eliscu, 339 F. 2d 823, 827 (CA2 1964)), there is no serious debate that a federally created claim for relief is generally a "sufficient condition for federal-question jurisdiction." Grable & Sons Metal Products, Inc. v. Darue Engineering & Mfg., 545 U. S. 308, 317 (2005).8     Arrow agrees that this action arises under federal law, see Tr. of Oral Arg. 27, but urges that Congress vested exclusive adjudicatory authority over private TCPA actions in state courts. In cases "arising under" federal law, we note, there is a "deeply rooted presumption in favor of concurrent state court jurisdiction," rebuttable if "Congress affirmatively ousts the state courts of jurisdiction over a particular federal claim." Tafflin v. Levitt, 493 U. S. 455, 458-459 (1990). E.g., 28 U. S. C. §1333 ("The district courts shall have original jurisdiction, exclusive of the courts of the States, of: (1) Any civil case of admiralty or maritime jurisdiction . . . ."). The presumption of concurrent state-court jurisdiction, we have recognized, can be overcome "by an explicit statutory directive, by unmistakable implication from legislative history, or by a clear incompatibility between state-court jurisdiction and federal interests." Gulf Offshore Co. v. Mobil Oil Corp., 453 U. S. 473, 478 (1981).     Arrow readily acknowledges the presumption of concurrent state-court jurisdiction, but maintains that 28 U. S. C. §1331 creates no converse presumption in favor of federal-court jurisdiction. Instead, Arrow urges, the TCPA, a later, more specific statute, displaces §1331, an earlier, more general prescription. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 28-29; Brief for Respondent 31.     Section 1331, our decisions indicate, is not swept away so easily. As stated earlier, see supra, at 8, when federal law creates a private right of action and furnishes the substantive rules of decision, the claim arises under federal law, and district courts possess federal-question jurisdiction under §1331.9 That principle endures unless Congress divests federal courts of their §1331 adjudicatory authority. See, e.g., Verizon Md. Inc. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of Md., 535 U. S. 635, 642 (2002) (Nothing in 47 U. S. C. §252(e)(6) "divest[s] the district courts of their authority under 28 U. S. C. §1331 to review the [state agency's] order for compliance with federal law."); K mart Corp. v. Cartier, Inc., 485 U. S. 176, 182-183 (1988) ("The District Court would be divested of [§1331] jurisdiction . . . if this action fell within one of several specific grants of exclusive jurisdiction to the Court of International Trade [under 28 U. S. C. §1581(a) or §1581(i)(3)].").     "[D]ivestment of district court jurisdiction" should be found no more readily than "divestmen[t] of state court jurisdiction," given "the longstanding and explicit grant of federal question jurisdiction in 28 U. S. C. §1331." ErieNet, 156 F. 3d, at 523 (Alito, J., dissenting); see Gonell, Note, Statutory Interpretation of Federal Jurisdictional Statutes: Jurisdiction of the Private Right of Action under the TCPA, 66 Ford. L. Rev. 1895, 1929-1930 (1998). Accordingly, the District Court retains §1331 jurisdiction over Mims's complaint unless the TCPA, expressly or by fair implication, excludes federal-court adjudication. See Verizon Md., 535 U. S., at 644; Gonell, supra, at 1929 (Jurisdiction over private TCPA actions "is proper under §1331 unless Congress enacted a partial repeal of §1331 in the TCPA.").III     Arrow's arguments do not persuade us that Congress has eliminated §1331 jurisdiction over private actions under the TCPA.     The language of the TCPA--"A person or entity may, if otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of a State, bring [an action] in an appropriate court of that State," 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3)--Arrow asserts, is uniquely state-court oriented. See Brief for Respondent 13. That may be, but "[i]t is a general rule that the grant of jurisdiction to one court does not, of itself, imply that the jurisdiction is to be exclusive." United States v. Bank of New York & Trust Co., 296 U. S. 463, 479 (1936).     Nothing in the permissive language of §227(b)(3) makes state-court jurisdiction exclusive, or otherwise purports to oust federal courts of their 28 U. S. C. §1331 jurisdiction over federal claims. See, e.g., Verizon Md., 535 U. S., at 643 ("[N]othing in 47 U. S. C. §252(e)(6) purports to strip [§1331] jurisdiction."). Cf. Yellow Freight System, Inc. v. Donnelly, 494 U. S. 820, 823 (1990) (Title VII's language--"[e]ach United States district court . . . shall have jurisdiction of actions brought under this subchapter," 42 U. S. C. §2000e-5(f)(3)--does not "ous[t] state courts of their presumptive jurisdiction." (internal quotation marks omitted)). Congress may indeed provide a track for a federal claim exclusive of §1331. See, e.g., 42 U. S. C. §405(h) ("No action . . . shall be brought under [§1331] to recover on any claim arising under [Title II of the Social Security Act]."); Weinberger v. Salfi, 422 U. S. 749, 756-757 (1975). Congress has done nothing of that sort here, however.     Title 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3) does not state that a private plaintiff may bring an action under the TCPA "only" in state court, or "exclusively" in state court. The absence of such a statement contrasts with the Act's instruction on suits instituted by State Attorneys General. As earlier noted, see supra, at 4, 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(2) (Supp. 2011) vests "exclusive jurisdiction over [such] actions" in "[t]he district courts of the United States."10 Section 227(g)(2)'s exclusivity prescription "reinforce[s] the conclusion that [47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3)'s] silence . . . leaves the jurisdictional grant of §1331 untouched. For where otherwise applicable jurisdiction was meant to be excluded, it was excluded expressly." Verizon Md., 535 U. S., at 644; see ErieNet, 156 F. 3d, at 522 (Alito, J., dissenting) ("[47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(2) (Supp. 2011)] reveals that, while drafting the TCPA, Congress knew full well how to grant exclusive jurisdiction with mandatory language. The most natural interpretation of Congress' failure to use similar language in [47 U. S. C. §]227(b)(3) is that Congress did not intend to grant exclusive jurisdiction in that section."); Brill, 427 F. 3d, at 451 ("[47 U. S. C. A. §227(g)(2) (Supp. 2011)] is explicit about exclusivity, while [47 U. S. C.] §227(b)(3) is not; the natural inference is that the state forum mentioned in §227(b)(3) is optional rather than mandatory.").11     Arrow urges that Congress would have had no reason to provide for a private action "in an appropriate [state] court," §227(b)(3), if it did not mean to make the state forum exclusive. Had Congress said nothing at all about bringing private TCPA claims in state courts, Arrow observes, those courts would nevertheless have concurrent jurisdiction. See supra, at 9. True enough, but Congress had simultaneously provided for TCPA enforcement actions by state authorities, 47 U. S. C. A. §227(g) (Supp. 2011), and had made federal district courts exclusively competent in such cases, §227(g)(2). Congress may simply have wanted to avoid any argument that in private actions, as in actions brought by State Attorneys General, "federal jurisdiction is exclusive." Brill, 427 F. 3d, at 451 (emphasis deleted) (citing Yellow Freight, 494 U. S. 820 (holding, after 26 years of litigation, that claims under the Civil Rights Act of 1964 may be resolved in state as well as federal courts) and Tafflin, 493 U. S. 455 (holding, after 20 years of litigation, that claims under RICO may be resolved in state as well as federal courts)). Moreover, by providing that private actions may be brought in state court "if otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of [the] State," 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3), Congress arguably gave States leeway they would otherwise lack to "decide for [themselves] whether to entertain claims under the [TCPA]," Brill, 427 F. 3d, at 451. See Brief for Respondent 16 (Congress "le[ft] States free to decide what TCPA claims to allow.").12     Making state-court jurisdiction over §227(b)(3) claims exclusive, Arrow further asserts, "fits hand in glove with [Congress'] objective": enabling States to control telemarketers whose interstate operations evaded state law. Id., at 15. Even so, we have observed, jurisdiction conferred by 28 U. S. C. §1331 should hold firm against "mere implication flowing from subsequent legislation." Colorado River Water Conservation Dist. v. United States, 424 U. S. 800, 808, 809, n. 15 (1976) (quoting Rosencrans v. United States, 165 U. S. 257, 262 (1897)).     We are not persuaded, moreover, that Congress sought only to fill a gap in the States' enforcement capabilities. Had Congress so limited its sights, it could have passed a statute providing that out-of-state telemarketing calls directed into a State would be subject to the laws of the receiving State. Congress did not enact such a law. Instead, it enacted detailed, uniform, federal substantive prescriptions and provided for a regulatory regime administered by a federal agency. See 47 U. S. C. §227. TCPA liability thus depends on violation of a federal statutory requirement or an FCC regulation, §§227(b)(3)(A), (c)(5), not on a violation of any state substantive law.     The federal interest in regulating telemarketing to "protec[t] the privacy of individuals" while "permit[ting] legitimate [commercial] practices," 105 Stat. 2394, note following 47 U. S. C. §227 (Congressional Findings) (internal quotation marks omitted), is evident from the regulatory role Congress assigned to the FCC. See, e.g., §227(b)(2) (delegating to the FCC authority to exempt calls from the Act's reach and prohibit calls to businesses). Congress' design would be less well served if consumers had to rely on "the laws or rules of court of a State," §227(b)(3), or the accident of diversity jurisdiction,13 to gain redress for TCPA violations.           Arrow emphasizes a statement made on the Senate floor by Senator Hollings, the TCPA's sponsor:     "Computerized calls are the scourge of modern civilization. They wake us up in the morning; they interrupt our dinner at night; they force the sick and elderly out of bed; they hound us until we want to rip the telephone right out of the wall.     .?????.?????.?????.?????.          "The substitute bill contains a private right-of-action provision that will make it easier for consumers to recover damages from receiving these computerized calls. The provision would allow consumers to bring an action in State court against any entity that violates the bill. The bill does not, because of constitutional constraints, dictate to the States which court in each State shall be the proper venue for such an action, as this is a matter for State legislators to determine. Nevertheless, it is my hope that States will make it as easy as possible for consumers to bring such actions, preferably in small claims court. . . .     "Small claims court or a similar court would allow the consumer to appear before the court without an attorney. The amount of damages in this legislation is set to be fair to both the consumer and the telemarketer. However, it would defeat the purposes of the bill if the attorneys' costs to consumers of bringing an action were greater than the potential damages. I thus expect that the States will act reasonably in permitting their citizens to go to court to enforce this bill." 137 Cong. Rec. 30821-30822 (1991).This statement does not bear the weight Arrow would place on it.     First, the views of a single legislator, even a bill's sponsor, are not controlling. Consumer Product Safety Comm'n v. GTE Sylvania, Inc., 447 U. S. 102, 118 (1980). Second, Senator Hollings did not mention federal-court jurisdiction or otherwise suggest that 47 U. S. C. §227(b)(3) is intended to divest federal courts of authority to hear TCPA claims. Hollings no doubt believed that mine-run TCPA claims would be pursued most expeditiously in state small-claims court.14 But one cannot glean from his statement any expectation that those courts, or state courts generally, would have exclusive jurisdiction over private actions alleging violations of the Act or of the FCC's implementing regulations. Third, even if we agreed with Arrow that Senator Hollings expected private TCPA actions to proceed solely in state courts, and even if other supporters shared his view, that expectation would not control our judgment on 28 U. S. C. §1331's compass. Cf. Yellow Freight, 494 U. S., at 826 ("persuasive showing that most legislators, judges, and administrators . . . involved in the enactment, amendment, enforcement, and interpretation of Title VII expected that such litigation would be processed exclusively in federal courts" did not overcome presumption of concurrent state-court jurisdiction).     Among its arguments for state-court exclusivity, Arrow raises a concern about the impact on federal courts were we to uphold §1331 jurisdiction over private actions under the TCPA. "[G]iven the enormous volume of telecommunications presenting potential claims," Arrow projects, federal courts could be inundated by $500-per-violation TCPA claims. Brief for Respondent 33. "Moreover, if plaintiffs are free to bring TCPA claims in federal court under §1331, then defendants sued in state court would be equally free to remove those cases to federal court under 28 U. S. C. §1441." Id., at 22-23. Indeed, Arrow suggests, defendants could use removal as a mechanism to force small-claims-court plaintiffs to abandon suit rather than "figh[t] it out" in the "more expensive federal forum." Id., at 23.     Arrow's floodgates argument assumes "a shocking degree of noncompliance" with the Act, Reply Brief 11, and seems to us more imaginary than real. The current federal district court civil filing fee is $350. 28 U. S. C. §1914(a). How likely is it that a party would bring a $500 claim in, or remove a $500 claim to, federal court? Lexis and Westlaw searches turned up 65 TCPA claims removed to federal district courts in Illinois, Indiana, and Wisconsin since the Seventh Circuit held, in October 2005, that the Act does not confer exclusive jurisdiction on state courts. All 65 cases were class actions, not individual cases removed from small-claims court.15 There were also 26 private TCPA claims brought initially in federal district courts; of those, 24 were class actions.IV     Nothing in the text, structure, purpose, or legislative history of the TCPA calls for displacement of the federal-question jurisdiction U. S. district courts ordinarily have under 28 U. S. C. §1331. In the absence of direction from Congress stronger than any Arrow has advanced, we apply the familiar default rule: Federal courts have §1331 jurisdiction over claims that arise under federal law. Because federal law gives rise to the claim for relief Mims has stated and specifies the substantive rules of decision, the Eleventh Circuit erred in dismissing Mims's case for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction.*??*??*     For the reasons stated, the judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESRespondent Bormes, an attorney, filed suit against the Federal Government, alleging that the electronic receipt he received when paying his client's federal-court filing fee on Pay.gov included the last four digits of his credit card number and the card's expiration date, in willful violation of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), 15 U. S. C. §1681 et seq. He sought damages under §1681n and asserted jurisdiction under §1681p, as well as under the Little Tucker Act, which grants district courts "original jurisdiction, concurrent with the United States Court of Federal Claims, of . . . [a]ny. . . civil action or claim against the United States, not exceeding $10,000 in amount, founded . . . upon . . . any Act of Congress," 28 U. S. C. §1346(a)(2). In dismissing the suit, the District Court held that FCRA did not explicitly waive the Federal Government's sovereign immunity. Bormes appealed to the Federal Circuit, which vacated the District Court's decision, holding that the Little Tucker Act provided the Government's consent to suit because the underlying statute--FCRA--could fairly be interpreted as mandating a right of recovery in damages.Held: The Little Tucker Act does not waive the Government's sovereign immunity with respect to FCRA damages actions. Pp. 4-11.     (a) The Little Tucker Act and its companion statute, the Tucker Act, provide the Federal Government's consent to suit for certain money-damages claims "premised on other sources of law," United States v. Navajo Nation, 556 U. S. 287, 290. The general terms of the Tucker Acts are displaced, however, when a law imposing monetary liability has its own judicial remedies. In that event, the specific remedial scheme establishes the exclusive framework for determining the scope of liability under the statute. See, e.g., Hinck v. United States, 550 U. S. 501. Pp. 4-7.     (b) FCRA is such a statute. Its detailed remedial scheme sets "out a carefully circumscribed, time-limited, plaintiff-specific" cause of action, and "also precisely define[s] the appropriate forum," 550 U. S., at 507. FCRA authorizes aggrieved consumers to hold "any person" who "willfully" or "negligent[ly]" fails to comply with the Act's requirements liable for specified damages, 15 U. S. C. §§1681n(a), 1681o; requires enforcement claims to be brought within a specified limitations period, §1681p; and provides that jurisdiction will lie "in any appropriate United States district court, without regard to the amount in controversy," ibid. Because FCRA enables claimants to pursue monetary relief in court without resort to the Tucker Act, only its own text can determine whether Congress unequivocally intended to impose the statute's damages liability on the Federal Government. Pp. 7-10.626 F. 3d 574, vacated and remanded.     Scalia, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Opinion of the Court?568 U. S. ____ (2012)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 11-192UNITED STATES, PETITIONER v. JAMES X. BORMESon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit[November 13, 2012]     Justice Scalia delivered the opinion of the Court.     The Little Tucker Act, 28 U. S. C. §1346(a)(2), provides that "[t]he district courts shall have original jurisdiction, concurrent with the United States Court of Federal Claims, of . . . [a]ny. . . civil action or claim against the United States, not exceeding $10,000 in amount, founded . . . upon . . . any Act of Congress." We consider whether the Little Tucker Act waives the sovereign immunity of the United States with respect to damages actions for violations of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), 15 U. S. C. §1681 et seq.I     The Fair Credit Reporting Act has as one of its purposes to "protect consumer privacy." Safeco Ins. Co. of America v. Burr, 551 U. S. 47, 52 (2007); see 84 Stat. 1128, 15 U. S. C. §1681. To that end, FCRA provides, among other things, that "no person that accepts credit cards or debit cards for the transaction of business shall print more than the last 5 digits of the card number or the expiration date upon any receipt provided to the cardholder at the point of the sale or transaction." §1681c(g)(1) (emphasis added). The Act defines "person" as "any individual, partnership, corporation, trust, estate, cooperative, association, government or governmental subdivision or agency, or other entity." §1681a(b).     FCRA imposes civil liability for willful or negligent noncompliance with its requirements: "Any person who willfully fails to comply" with the Act "with respect to any consumer," "is liable to that consumer" for actual damages or damages "of not less than $100 and not more than $1,000," as well as punitive damages, attorney's fees, and costs. §1681n(a); see also §1681o (civil liability for negligent noncompliance). The Act includes a jurisdictional provision, which provides that "[a]n action to enforce any liability created under this subchapter may be brought in any appropriate United States district court, without regard to the amount in controversy, or in any other court of competent jurisdiction" within the earlier of "2 years after the date of discovery by the plaintiff of the violation that is the basis for such liability" or "5 years after the date on which the violation that is the basis for such liability occurs." §1681p.     Respondent James X. Bormes is an attorney who filed a putative class action against the United States in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois seeking damages under FCRA. Bormes alleged that he paid a $350 federal-court filing fee for a client using his own credit card on Pay.gov, an Internet-based system used by federal courts and dozens of federal agencies to process online payment transactions. According to Bormes, his Pay.gov electronic receipt included the last four digits of his credit card, in addition to its expiration date, in willful violation of §1681c(g)(1). He claimed that he and thousands of similarly situated persons were entitled to recover damages under §1681n, and asserted jurisdiction under §1681p, as well as under the Little Tucker Act, 28 U. S. C. §1346(a)(2).     The District Court dismissed the suit, holding that FCRA does not contain the explicit waiver of sovereign immunity necessary to permit a damages suit against the United States. 638 F. Supp. 2d 958, 962 (ND Ill. 2009). The court did not address the Little Tucker Act as an asserted basis for jurisdiction. Respondent appealed to the Federal Circuit, which has exclusive jurisdiction "of an appeal from a final decision of a district court of the United States . . . if the jurisdiction of that court was based, in whole or in part, on" the Little Tucker Act. 28 U. S. C. §1295(a)(2). Arguing that the Little Tucker Act's jurisdictional grant did not apply to respondent's suit, the Government moved to transfer the appeal to the Seventh Circuit.     The Federal Circuit denied the transfer motion and went on to vacate the District Court's decision. Without deciding whether FCRA itself contained the requisite waiver of sovereign immunity, the court held that the Little Tucker Act provided the Government's consent to suit for violation of FCRA. The court explained that the Little Tucker Act applied because FCRA " 'can fairly be interpreted as mandating compensation by the Federal Government for the damage sustained.' " 626 F. 3d 574, 578 (2010) (quoting United States v. White Mountain Apache Tribe, 537 U. S. 465, 472 (2003)). This "fair interpretation" rule, the court explained, "demands a showing 'demonstrably lower' than the initial waiver of sovereign immunity" contained in the Little Tucker Act itself. 626 F. 3d, at 578. The court reasoned that FCRA satisfied the "fair interpretation" rule because its damages provision applies to "any person" who willfully violates its requirements, 15 U. S. C. §1681n(a), and the Act elsewhere defines "person" to include "any . . . government," §1681a(b). 626 F. 3d, at 580. The Federal Circuit remanded to the District Court for further proceedings. We granted certiorari, 565 U. S. ___ (2012).II     Sovereign immunity shields the United States from suit absent a consent to be sued that is " 'unequivocally expressed.' " United States v. Nordic Village, Inc., 503 U. S. 30, 33-34 (1992) (quoting Irwin v. Department of Veterans Affairs, 498 U. S. 89, 95 (1990); some internal quotation marks omitted). The Little Tucker Act is one statute that unequivocally provides the Federal Government's consent to suit for certain money-damages claims. United States v. Mitchell, 463 U. S. 206, 216 (1983) (Mitchell II). Subject to exceptions not relevant here, the Little Tucker Act provides that "district courts shall have original jurisdiction, concurrent with the United States Court of Federal Claims," of a "civil action or claim against the United States, not exceeding $10,000 in amount, founded either upon the Constitution, or any Act of Congress, or any regulation of an executive department, or upon any express or implied contract with the United States, or for liquidated or unliquidated damages in cases not sounding in tort." 28 U. S. C. §1346(a)(2).1 The Little Tucker Act and its companion statute, the Tucker Act, §1491(a)(1),2 do not themselves "creat[e] substantive rights," but "are simply jurisdictional provisions that operate to waive sovereign immunity for claims premised on other sources of law." United States v. Navajo Nation, 556 U. S. 287, 290 (2009).     Bormes argues that whether or not FCRA itself unam-biguously waives sovereign immunity, the Little Tucker Act authorizes his FCRA damages claim against the United States. The question, then, is whether a damages claim under FCRA "falls within the terms of the Tucker Act," so that "the United States has presumptively consented to suit." Mitchell II, supra, at 216. It does not. Where, as in FCRA, a statute contains its own self-executing remedial scheme, we look only to that statute to determine whether Congress intended to subject the United States to damages liability.A     The Court of Claims was established, and the Tucker Act enacted, to open a judicial avenue for certain mone-tary claims against the United States. Before the creation of the Court of Claims in 1855, see Act of Feb. 24, 1855 (1855 Act), ch. 122, §1, 10 Stat. 612, it was not uncommon for statutes to impose monetary obligations on the United States without specifying a means of judicial enforcement.3 As a result, claimants routinely petitioned Congress for private bills to recover money owed by the Federal Government. See Mitchell II, supra, at 212 (citing P. Bator, P. Mishkin, D. Shapiro & H. Wechsler, Hart and Wechsler's The Federal Courts and the Federal System 98 (2d ed. 1973)). As this individualized legislative process became increasingly burdensome for Congress, the Court of Claims was created "to relieve the pressure on Congress caused by the volume of private bills." Glidden Co. v. Zdanok, 370 U. S. 530, 552 (1962) (plurality opinion). The 1855 Act authorized the Court of Claims to hear claims against the United States "founded upon any law of Congress," §1, 10 Stat. 612, and thus allowed claimants to sue the Federal Government for monetary relief premised on other sources of law. (Specialized legislation remained necessary to authorize the payments approved by the Court of Claims until 1863, when Congress empowered the court to enter final judgments. See Act of Mar. 3, 1863 (1863 Act), ch. 92, 12 Stat. 765; Mitchell II, supra, at 212-214 (recounting the history of the Court of Claims)).     Enacted in 1887, the Tucker Act was the successor statute to the 1855 and 1863 Acts and replaced most of their provisions. See Act of Mar. 3, 1887 (1887 Act), ch. 359, 24 Stat. 505; Mitchell II, supra, at 213-214. Like the 1855 Act before it, the Tucker Act provided the Federal Government's consent to suit in the Court of Claims for claims "founded upon . . . any law of Congress." 1887 Act §1, 24 Stat. 505. Section 2 of the 1887 Act created concurrent jurisdiction in the district courts for claims of up to $1,000. The Tucker Act's jurisdictional grant, and accompanying immunity waiver, supplied the missing ingredient for an action against the United States for the breach of monetary obligations not otherwise judicially enforceable.4B     The Tucker Act is displaced, however, when a law assertedly imposing monetary liability on the United States contains its own judicial remedies. In that event, the specific remedial scheme establishes the exclusive framework for the liability Congress created under the statute. Because a "precisely drawn, detailed statute pre-empts more general remedies," Hinck v. United States, 550 U. S. 501, 506 (2007) (quoting EC Term of Years Trust v. United States, 550 U. S. 429, 434 (2007); internal quotation marks omitted), FCRA's self-executing remedial scheme supersedes the gap-filling role of the Tucker Act.     We have long recognized that an additional remedy in the Court of Claims is foreclosed when it contradicts the limits of a precise remedial scheme. In Nichols v. United States, 7 Wall. 122, 131 (1869), the issue was whether the 1855 Act authorized suit in the Court of Claims for improper assessment of duties on imported liquor that had already been paid without protest. The Court held that it did not. The revenue laws already provided a remedy: An aggrieved merchant could sue to recover the tax, but only after paying the duty under protest. Act of Feb. 26, 1845, ch. 22, 5 Stat. 727. The Court rejected the supposition that "Congress, after having carefully constructed a revenue system, with ample provisions to redress wrong, intended to give to the taxpayer and importer a further and different remedy." 7 Wall., at 131. Permitting suit under the 1855 Act, the Court concluded, would frustrate congressional intent with respect to the specific remedial scheme already in place. The 1855 Act was confined to a gap-filling role. As we said in a later case, "the general laws which govern the Court of Claims may be resorted to for relief" only because "[n]o special remedy has been provided" to enforce a payment to which the claimant was entitled. United States v. Kaufman, 96 U. S. 567, 569 (1878). Where the "liability is one created by statute," the "special remedy provided by the same statute is exclusive." Ibid.     Our more recent cases have consistently held that statutory schemes with their own remedial framework exclude alternative relief under the general terms of the Tucker Act. See, e.g., Hinck, supra; United States v. Fausto, 484 U. S. 439 (1988); United States v. Erika, Inc., 456 U. S. 201 (1982). Respondent contends that in each of those cases Congress had unambiguously demonstrated its intent to foreclose additional review by the Court of Federal Claims--whereas here, no similar intent to preclude Tucker Act jurisdiction is apparent. See Brief for Respondent 27-28. But our precedents collectively stand for a more basic proposition: Where a specific statutory scheme provides the accoutrements of a judicial action, the metes and bounds of the liability Congress intended to create can only be divined from the text of the statute itself.5     In Hinck, for example, we held that the Tax Court provides the exclusive forum for suits under 26 U. S. C. §6404(h), which authorizes judicial review of the Secre-tary's decision not to abate interest under §6404(e)(1). We relied on "our past recognition that when Congress enacts a specific remedy when no remedy was previously recognized . . . the remedy provided is generally regarded as exclusive." 550 U. S., at 506. Section 6404(h), we concluded, "fits the bill": it "provides a forum for adjudication, a limited class of potential plaintiffs, a statute of limitations, a standard of review, and authorization for judicial relief." Ibid. It did not matter that Congress "fail[ed] explicitly to define the Tax Court's jurisdiction as exclusive." Ibid. We found it "quite plain that the terms of §6404(h)--a 'precisely drawn, detailed statute' filling a perceived hole in the law--control all requests for review of §6404(e)(1) determinations." Ibid.     Like §6404(h), FCRA creates a detailed remedial scheme. Its provisions "set out a carefully circumscribed, time-limited, plaintiff-specific" cause of action, and "also precisely define the appropriate forum." Id., at 507. It authorizes aggrieved consumers to hold "any person" who "willfully" or "negligent[ly]" fails to comply with the Act's requirements liable for specified damages. 15 U. S. C. §§1681n(a), 1681o. Claims to enforce liability must be brought within a specified limitations period, §1681p, and jurisdiction will lie "in any appropriate United States district court, without regard to the amount in controversy, or in any other court of competent jurisdiction." Ibid. Without resort to the Tucker Act, FCRA enables claimants to pursue in court the monetary relief contemplated by the statute.     Plaintiffs cannot, therefore, mix and match FCRA's provisions with the Little Tucker Act's immunity waiver to create an action against the United States. Since FCRA is a detailed remedial scheme, only its own text can determine whether the damages liability Congress crafted extends to the Federal Government. To hold otherwise--to permit plaintiffs to remedy the absence of a waiver of sovereign immunity in specific, detailed statutes by pleading general Tucker Act jurisdiction--would transform the sovereign-immunity landscape.     The Federal Circuit was therefore wrong to conclude that the Tucker Act justified applying a "less stringent" sovereign-immunity analysis to FCRA than our cases require. 626 F. 3d, at 582. It distorted our case law in applying to FCRA the immunity-waiver standard we expressed in White Mountain Apache Tribe, 537 U. S., at 472: whether the statute " 'can fairly be interpreted as mandating compensation by the Federal Government for the damage sustained.' " 626 F. 3d, at 578. That is the test for determining whether a statute that imposes an obligation but does not provide the elements of a cause of action qualifies for suit under the Tucker Act--more specifically, whether the failure to perform an obligation undoubtedly imposed on the Federal Government creates a right to monetary relief. See White Mountain Apache Tribe, supra; Mitchell II, 463 U. S. 206. That test is not relevant when a "mandate of compensation" is contained in a statute that provides a detailed judicial remedy against those who are subject to its requirements. FCRA is such a statute. By using the "fair interpretation" test to determine whether FCRA's civil liability provisions apply to the United States, the Federal Circuit directed the test to a purpose for which it was not designed and leapfrogged the threshold concern that the Tucker Act cannot be superimposed on an existing remedial scheme.*??*??*     We do not decide here whether FCRA itself waives the Federal Government's immunity to damages actions under §1681n. That question is for the Seventh Circuit to consider once this case is transferred to it on remand. But whether or not FCRA contains the necessary waiver of immunity, any attempt to append a Tucker Act remedy to the statute's existing remedial scheme interferes with its intended scope of liability.     The judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated, and the case remanded with instructions to transfer the case to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESCongress enacted the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005 (CAFA) to lower diversity jurisdiction requirements in class actions and, as relevant here, in mass actions, i.e., civil actions "in which monetary relief claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact," 28 U. S. C. §1332(d)(11)(B)(i). Petitioner Mississippi sued respondent liquid crystal display (LCD) manufacturers in state court, alleging violations of state law and seeking, inter alia, restitution for LCD purchases made by itself and its citizens. Respondents sought to remove the case to federal court. The District Court held that the suit qualified as a mass action under §1332(d)(11)(B)(i), but remanded the suit to state court on the ground that it fell within CAFA's "general public" exception, §1332(d)(11)(B)(ii)(III). The Fifth Circuit reversed, agreeing with the District Court that the suit was a mass action but finding the general public exception inapplicable.Held: Because Mississippi is the only named plaintiff, this suit does not constitute a mass action under CAFA. Pp. 5-14.     (a) Contrary to respondents' argument, CAFA's "100 or more persons" phrase does not encompass unnamed persons who are real parties in interest to claims brought by named plaintiffs. Congress knew how to draft language to that effect when it intended such a meaning, see, e.g., §§1332(d)(5)(B), 1332(d)(1)(D). That it did not do so in the mass action provision indicates that Congress did not want the provision's numerosity requirement to be satisfied by counting unnamed individuals who possess an interest in the suit.     Respondents' understanding also cannot be reconciled with the fact that the "100 or more persons" are not unspecified individuals with no participation in the suit but are the "plaintiffs" subsequently referred to in the provision, i.e., the very parties proposing to join their claims in a single trial. This is evident in two key ways. First, CAFA uses "persons" and "plaintiffs" the same way they are used in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 20, which refers to "persons" as individuals who are proposing to join as "plaintiffs" in a single action. Second, it is difficult to imagine how the "claims of 100 or more" unnamed individuals could be "proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the . . . claims" of some completely different group of named plaintiffs "involve common questions of law or fact."     Construing "plaintiffs" to include both named and unnamed real parties in interest would stretch the meaning of "plaintiff" beyond recognition. A "plaintiff" is commonly understood to be a party who brings a civil suit in a court of law, not anyone, named or unnamed, whom a suit may benefit. Moreover, respondents' definition would also have to apply to the mass action provision's subsequent reference to "plaintiffs" in the phrase "jurisdiction shall exist only over those plaintiffs whose claims [exceed $75,000]," §1332(d)(11)(B)(i). See Brown v. Gardner, 513 U. S. 115, 118. This would result in an administrative nightmare that Congress could not possibly have intended, see Griffin v. Oceanic Contractors, Inc., 458 U. S. 564, 575, where district courts would have to identify hundreds (or in this case, hundreds of thousands) of unnamed parties whose claims are for less than $75,000 and then decide how to dispose of their claims. Pp. 5-10.     (b) Statutory context reinforces this Court's reading of the mass action provision. CAFA provides that once removal occurs, a case shall not be transferred to another court "unless a majority of the plaintiffs in the action request transfer." §1332(d)(11)(C)(i). If "plaintiffs" included unnamed parties, it would be surpassingly difficult for a court to poll the enormous number of real parties in interest to decide whether an action may be transferred. Moreover, respondents' position that the action here should be removed because it is similar to a class action fails to recognize that the mass action provision functions largely as a backstop to ensure that CAFA's relaxed class action jurisdictional rules cannot be evaded by a suit that names a host of plaintiffs rather than using the class device. Had Congress wanted CAFA to authorize removal of representative actions brought by States as sole plaintiffs on respondents' theory, it would have done so through the class action provision, not the mass action provision. Pp. 10-11.     (c) This Court has interpreted the diversity jurisdiction statute to require courts in certain contexts to look behind the pleadings to ensure that parties are not improperly creating or destroying diversity jurisdiction, see, e.g., Wecker v. National Enameling & Stamping Co., 204 U. S. 176, 185-186, but Congress did not intend this background inquiry to apply to the mass action provision. First, it could make sense to incorporate the background inquiry into the mass action provision if the inquiry had previously been applied in a similar manner. That is not the case here, however, and so any presumption that Congress wanted to incorporate the inquiry, if it exists at all, would be comparatively weak. Second, even if the background principle had previously been applied in this manner, Congress expressly indicated that it did not want the principle to apply to the mass action provision both through the textual indicators described above and by prohibiting defendants from joining unnamed individuals to a lawsuit in order to turn it into a mass action, §1332(d)(11)(B)(ii)(II). Requiring district courts to identify unnamed persons interested in the suit would run afoul of that intent. Pp. 11-13.701 F. 3d 796, reversed and remanded.     Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Opinion of the Court?571 U. S. ____ (2014)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 12-1036MISSISSIPPI ex rel. JIM HOOD, ATTORNEY GENERAL, PETITIONER v. AU OPTRONICS CORPORATION et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit[January 14, 2014]     Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.     Under the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005 (CAFA or Act), defendants in civil suits may remove "mass actions" from state to federal court. CAFA defines a "mass action" as "any civil action . . . in which monetary relief claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact." 28 U. S. C. §1332(d)(11)(B)(i). The question presented is whether a suit filed by a State as the sole plaintiff constitutes a "mass action" under CAFA where it includes a claim for restitution based on injuries suffered by the State's citizens. We hold that it does not. According to CAFA's plain text, a "mass action" must involve monetary claims brought by 100 or more persons who propose to try those claims jointly as named plaintiffs. Because the State of Mississippi is the only named plaintiff in the instant action, the case must be remanded to state court.IA     Congress enacted CAFA in order to "amend the procedures that apply to consideration of interstate class actions." 119 Stat. 4. In doing so, Congress recognized that "[c]lass action lawsuits are an important and valuable part of the legal system." CAFA §2. It was concerned, however, that certain requirements of federal diversity jurisdiction, 28 U. S. C. §1332, had functioned to "kee[p] cases of national importance" in state courts rather than federal courts. CAFA §2.     CAFA accordingly loosened the requirements for diversity jurisdiction for two types of cases--"class actions" and "mass actions." The Act defines "class action" to mean "any civil action filed under rule 23 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure or similar State statute or rule of judicial procedure." 28 U. S. C. §1332(d)(1)(B). And it defines "mass action" to mean "any civil action . . . in which monetary relief claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact." §1332(d)(11)(B)(i).     For class and mass actions, CAFA expanded diversity jurisdiction in two key ways. First, it replaced the ordinary requirement of complete diversity of citizenship among all plaintiffs and defendants, see State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v. Tashire, 386 U. S. 523, 530-531 (1967), with a requirement of minimal diversity. Under that requirement, a federal court may exercise jurisdiction over a class action if "any member of a class of plaintiffs is a citizen of a State different from any defendant." §1332(d)(2)(A). The same rule applies to mass actions. See §1332(d)(11)(A) ("[A] mass action shall be deemed . . . removable under [§§1332(d)(2) through (d)(10)]"). Second, whereas §1332(a) ordinarily requires each plaintiff's claim to exceed the sum or value of $75,000, see Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Allapattah Services, Inc., 545 U. S. 546, 554-555 (2005), CAFA grants federal jurisdiction over class and mass actions in which the aggregate amount in controversy exceeds $5 million. §§1332(d)(2), (d)(6), (d)(11)(A). Class and mass actions filed in state court that satisfy CAFA's requirements may be removed to federal court, 28 U. S. C. §1453, but federal jurisdiction in a mass action, unlike a class action, "shall exist only over those plaintiffs" whose claims individually satisfy the $75,000 amount in controversy requirement, §1332(d)(11)(B)(i).1B     Respondents manufacture liquid crystal displays, or LCDs. In March 2011, the State of Mississippi sued them in state court, alleging that they had formed an international cartel to restrict competition and raise prices in the LCD market. The State claimed that these actions violated two Mississippi statutes: the Mississippi Antitrust Act, Miss. Code Ann. §75-21-1 et seq. (2009), and the Mississippi Consumer Protection Act, §75-24-1 et seq. (2009 and Cum. Supp. 2013). The State sought injunctive relief and civil penalties under both statutes, along with punitive damages, costs, and attorney's fees. It also sought restitution for its own purchases "of LCD products and the purchases of its citizens." App. to Brief in Opposition 65a; §75-24-11.     Respondents filed a notice to remove the case from state to federal court, arguing that the case was removable under CAFA as either a "class action" or a "mass action." The District Court ruled that the suit did not qualify as a "class action" because it was "not brought pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23 or a 'similar State statute or rule of judicial procedure.' " 876 F. Supp. 2d 758, 769 (SD Miss. 2012). But it held that the suit did qualify as a "mass action," because "[i]t is a civil action 'in which monetary relief claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact.' " Id., at 771. The District Court reached that conclusion on the basis of Fifth Circuit precedent in Louisiana ex rel. Caldwell v. Allstate Ins. Co., 536 F. 3d 418 (CA5 2008), which it understood to "stan[d] for the proposition that the words 'persons' and 'plaintiffs' in [the mass action definition] are to be defined as 'real parties in interest.' " 876 F. Supp. 2d, at 771. Applying that rule, the court found that 100 or more unidentified Mississippi consumers had purchased LCD screens and were therefore real parties in interest to the State's restitution claim. Ibid. The court noted the "possibility that a 'mass action' should be thought of as a 'mass joinder,' "--that is, as a suit involving 100 or more "named plaintiffs." Ibid., n. 9. But it deemed that interpretation to be foreclosed by Caldwell.     The District Court nonetheless remanded the case to state court on the basis of CAFA's "general public exception," which excludes from the "mass action" definition "any civil action in which . . . all of the claims in the action are asserted on behalf of the general public (and not on behalf of individual claimants or members of a purported class) pursuant to a State statute specifically authorizing such action." 28 U. S. C. §1332(d)(11)(B)(ii)(III).     The Court of Appeals reversed. 701 F. 3d 796 (CA5 2012). It agreed with the District Court's determination that Mississippi's suit is not a "class action" under CAFA.2 Id., at 799. It also agreed that, under Caldwell, the suit qualifies as a "mass action" because "[t]he real parties in interest in Mississippi's suit are those more than 100 . . . individual citizens who purchased the [LCD] products within Mississippi." 701 F. 3d, at 800. It disagreed, however, with the District Court's ruling that the suit falls within the general public exception. Id., at 802-803.3 Judge Elrod concurred in the judgment, noting that after the Fifth Circuit's decision in Caldwell, three Courts of Appeals had deemed similar lawsuits not to be mass actions removable under CAFA.4 We granted certiorari to resolve this split of authority, 569 U. S. ___ (2013), and now reverse.IIA     Our analysis begins with the statutory text. Sebelius v. Cloer, 569 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 6). The statute provides:"[T]he term mass action means any civil action (except a [class action]) in which monetary relief claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact, except that jurisdiction shall exist only over those plaintiffs whose claims in a mass action satisfy the jurisdictional amount requirements under subsection (a)." §1332(d)(11)(B)(i).     The parties do not dispute that this provision encompasses suits that are brought jointly by 100 or more named plaintiffs who propose to try their claims together. The question is whether the provision also includes suits brought by fewer than 100 named plaintiffs on the theory that there may be 100 or more unnamed persons who are real parties in interest as beneficiaries to any of the plaintiffs' claims. Respondents argue that the provision covers such suits because "claims of 100 or more persons" refers to "the persons to whom the claim belongs, i.e., the real parties in interest to the claims," regardless of whether those persons are named or unnamed. Brief for Respondents 19 (emphasis in original). We disagree.     To start, the statute says "100 or more persons," not "100 or more named or unnamed real parties in interest." Had Congress intended the latter, it easily could have drafted language to that effect. Indeed, when Congress wanted a numerosity requirement in CAFA to be satisfied by counting unnamed parties in interest in addition to named plaintiffs, it explicitly said so: CAFA provides that in order for a class action to be removable, "the number of members of all proposed plaintiff classes" must be 100 or greater, §1332(d)(5)(B), and it defines "class members" to mean "the persons (named or unnamed) who fall within the definition of the proposed or certified class," §1332(d)(1)(D). Congress chose not to use the phrase "named or unnamed" in CAFA's mass action provision, a decision we understand to be intentional. See Dean v. United States, 556 U. S. 568, 573 (2009) (" '[W]here Congress includes particular language in one section of a statute but omits it in another section of the same Act, it is generally presumed that Congress acts intentionally and purposely in the disparate inclusion or exclusion' ").     More fundamentally, respondents' interpretation cannot be reconciled with the fact that the "100 or more persons" referred to in the statute are not unspecified individuals who have no actual participation in the suit, but instead the very "plaintiffs" referred to later in the sentence--the parties who are proposing to join their claims in a single trial. Congress made this understanding evident in two key ways.     First, we presume that " 'Congress is aware of existing law when it passes legislation.' " Hall v. United States, 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 9). Here, Congress used the terms "persons" and "plaintiffs" just as they are used in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 20, governing party joinder. Where §1332(d)(11)(B)(i) requires that the "claims of 100 or more persons [must be] proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact," Rule 20 provides that "[p]ersons may join in one action as plaintiffs if they assert any right to relief jointly . . . and any question of law or fact common to all plaintiffs will arise in the action." Thus, just as it is used in Rule 20, the term "persons" in §1332(d)(11)(B)(i) refers to the individuals who are proposing to join as plaintiffs in a single action.     Second, respondents' interpretation of "persons" cannot square with the statute's requirement that the claims of the "100 or more persons" must be proposed for joint trial "on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions of law or fact." §1332(d)(11)(B)(i). It is difficult to imagine how the claims of one set of unnamed individuals could be proposed for joint trial on the ground that the claims of some completely different group of named plaintiffs share common questions. The better understanding is that Congress meant for the "100 or more persons" and the proposed "plaintiffs" to be one and the same.     Recognizing that the statute's use of the term "persons" could be a reference to proposed plaintiffs, respondents assert that "plaintiffs," like "persons," should be construed to "includ[e] both named and unnamed real parties in interest." Brief for Respondents 24. But that stretches the meaning of "plaintiff" beyond recognition. The term "plaintiff" is among the most commonly understood of legal terms of art: It means a "party who brings a civil suit in a court of law." Black's Law Dictionary 1267 (9th ed. 2009); see also Webster's Third New International Dictionary 1729 (1961) (defining "plaintiff" to mean "one who commences a personal action or lawsuit," or "the complaining party in any litigation"). It certainly does not mean "anyone, named or unnamed, whom a suit may benefit," as respondents suggest.5     Moreover, Congress used the term "plaintiffs" twice in the mass action provision. The provision encompasses actions in which monetary "claims of 100 or more persons are proposed to be tried jointly on the ground that the plaintiffs' claims involve common questions," and it then provides that "jurisdiction shall exist only over those plaintiffs whose claims in a mass action satisfy the jurisdictional amount requiremen[t]" of $75,000. §1332(d) (11)(B)(i). If respondents are correct that "plaintiffs" means unnamed parties in interest where it is used the first time, then so too the second. After all, the "presumption that a given term is used to mean the same thing throughout a statute" is "at its most vigorous when a term is repeated within a given sentence." Brown v. Gardner, 513 U. S. 115, 118 (1994).     Yet if the term "plaintiffs" is stretched to include all unnamed individuals with an interest in the suit, then §1332(d)(11)(B)(i)'s requirement that "jurisdiction shall exist only over those plaintiffs whose claims [exceed $75,000]" becomes an administrative nightmare that Congress could not possibly have intended, see Griffin v. Oceanic Contractors, Inc., 458 U. S. 564, 575 (1982). How is a district court to identify the unnamed parties whose claims in a given case are for less than $75,000? Would the court in this case, for instance, have to hold an evidentiary hearing to determine the identity of each of the hundreds of thousands of unnamed Mississippi citizens who purchased one of respondents' LCD products between 1996 and 2006 (the period alleged in the complaint)? Even if it could identify every such person, how would it ascertain the amount in controversy for each individual claim? Respondents suggest that "[i]n some circumstances, defendants may be able to identify from their payment records any persons who may have claims for overpayments," but they stop notably short of claiming to possess such decades-old records themselves. Brief for Respondents 25.     Furthermore, what would happen with individuals whose claims were valued at less than $75,000? The District Court in this case suggested that if the suit were deemed a mass action, it would sever the claim for "restitution for losses incurred by individuals claiming less than or equal to $75,000 each" and remand that claim back to state court, while allowing the other claims (including the restitution claims exceeding $75,000) to proceed in federal court. 876 F. Supp. 2d, at 775. Even respondents do not defend that outcome, presumably because it would mean that much of the State's lawsuit could proceed in state court after all, simultaneously with the newly severed parallel federal action.6     We think it unlikely that Congress intended that federal district courts engage in these unwieldy inquiries. By contrast, interpreting "plaintiffs" in accordance with its usual meaning--to refer to the actual named parties who bring an action--leads to a straightforward, easy to administer rule under which a court would examine whether the plaintiffs have pleaded in good faith the requisite amount. See Horton v. Liberty Mut. Ins. Co., 367 U. S. 348, 353 (1961). Our decision thus comports with the commonsense observation that "when judges must decide jurisdictional matters, simplicity is a virtue." See Standard Fire Ins. Co. v. Knowles, 568 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 6).B     Our reading of the mass action provision's text is reinforced by the statutory context. See Mohamad v. Palestinian Authority, 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 5-6).     First, the provision of CAFA governing transfer motions confirms our view that the term "plaintiffs" refers to actual named parties as opposed to unnamed real parties in interest. That provision, §1332(d)(11)(C)(i), provides that once a mass action has been removed to federal court, it "shall not thereafter be transferred to any other court . . . unless a majority of the plaintiffs in the action request transfer." If respondents are correct that "plaintiffs" means "unnamed parties in interest," it will be surpassingly difficult for a court to decide in a case like this one whether an action may be transferred. The District Court itself acknowledged this problem, noting that it would have to identify and communicate with "hundreds of thousands if not millions of real parties in interest" to "pol[l] [them] about their preferred forum" if respondents' interpretation were correct. 876 F. Supp. 2d, at 777.     The context in which the mass action provision was enacted lends further support to our conclusion. Congress' overriding concern in enacting CAFA was with class actions. See Preamble, 119 Stat. 4 (describing CAFA as an "[a]ct to amend the procedures that apply to consideration of interstate class actions"); CAFA §2 (Congress' findings with respect to class actions). The mass action provision thus functions largely as a backstop to ensure that CAFA's relaxed jurisdictional rules for class actions cannot be evaded by a suit that names a host of plaintiffs rather than using the class device. Respondents' argument fails to recognize this key distinction. Their position is ultimately that "[t]his action is similar to a class action," such that it should be removed. Brief for Respondents 27. But if Congress had wanted representative actions brought by States as sole plaintiffs to be removable under CAFA on the theory that they are in substance no different from class actions, it would have done so through the class action provision, not the one governing mass actions.7III     Rather than relying on the text of CAFA as the source of its real party in interest inquiry, the Court of Appeals appeared to find such an inquiry necessary on the basis of what it understood to be a background principle: that "federal courts look to the substance of the action and not only at the labels that the parties may attach." Caldwell, 536 F. 3d, at 424. This was error.     We have interpreted the diversity jurisdiction statute to require courts in certain contexts to look behind the pleadings to ensure that parties are not improperly creating or destroying diversity jurisdiction. We have held, for example, that a plaintiff may not keep a case out of federal court by fraudulently naming a nondiverse defendant. Wecker v. National Enameling & Stamping Co., 204 U. S. 176, 185-186 (1907). Nor may a plaintiff create diversity by collusively assigning his interest in an action. Kramer v. Caribbean Mills, Inc., 394 U. S. 823, 825-830 (1969); see also 28 U. S. C. §1359. And in cases involving a State or state official, we have inquired into the real party in interest because a State's presence as a party will destroy complete diversity. Missouri, K. & T. R. Co. v. Missouri Railroad and Warehouse Comm'rs, 183 U. S. 53, 58-59 (1901).     But the question in this case is not simply whether there exists some background principle of analyzing the real parties in interest to a suit; the question is whether Congress intended that courts engage in that analysis when deciding whether a suit is a mass action. Recognizing this fact, respondents do not argue that the real party in interest inquiry employed in the above cases somehow supersedes the text of CAFA; they instead argue that we should read CAFA in light of those cases because " 'Congress expects its statutes to be read in conformity with this Court's precedents.' " Brief for Respondents 19 (quoting United States v. Wells, 519 U. S. 482, 495 (1997)). For two reasons, however, we conclude that Congress did not intend the background inquiry to apply to the mass action provision.     First, it makes sense to infer Congress' intent to incorporate a background principle into a new statute where the principle has previously been applied in a similar manner. But that is not the case here. The background real party in interest inquiry identifies what party's (or parties') citizenship should be considered in determining diversity. The inquiry that respondents urge is quite different: It is an attempt to count up additional unnamed parties in order to satisfy the mass action provision's numerosity requirement. Respondents offer no reason to believe that Congress intended to extend the real party inquiry to this new circumstance, and so any presumption that Congress wanted to incorporate the inquiry, if it exists in this case at all, would be comparatively weak. Cf. Meyer v. Holley, 537 U. S. 280, 286 (2003) ("Congress' silence, while permitting an inference that Congress intended to apply ordinary background tort principles, cannot show that it intended to apply an unusual modification of those rules").8     Second, even if the background principle had previously been applied in the manner sought by respondents, Congress provided express indications that it did not want the principle to apply to the mass action provision. It specified that "the term 'mass action' shall not include any civil action in which . . . the claims are joined upon motion of a defendant." §1332(d)(11)(B)(ii)(II). By prohibiting defendants from joining unnamed individuals to a lawsuit in order to turn it into a mass action, Congress demonstrated its focus on the persons who are actually proposing to join together as named plaintiffs in the suit. Requiring district courts to pierce the pleadings to identify unnamed persons interested in the suit would run afoul of that intent. Moreover, as already discussed, Congress repeatedly used the word "plaintiffs" to describe the 100 or more persons whose claims must be proposed for a joint trial. That word refers to actual, named parties--a concept inherently at odds with the background inquiry into unnamed real parties in interest, who by definition are never plaintiffs. Congress thus clearly displaced a background real party in interest inquiry, even assuming one might otherwise apply. Cf. Barnhart v. Sigmon Coal Co., 534 U. S. 438, 459, n. 16 (2002).*??*??*     For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESThe Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act of 1994 (FAAAA) preempts state laws "related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier . . . with respect to the transportation of property." 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1). This provision borrows from the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 (ADA), which preempts state laws "related to a price, route, or service of an air carrier," §41713(b)(1), but it adds the important qualification, "with respect to transportation of property."          Plaintiff-respondent Pelkey brought suit in New Hampshire Superior Court, alleging that defendant-petitioner Dan's City Used Cars (Dan's City), a towing company, took custody of his car after towing it from his landlord's parking lot without Pelkey's knowledge, failed to notify him of its plan to auction the car, held an auction despite Pelkey's notice that he wanted to reclaim the car, and eventually traded the car away without compensating Pelkey for the loss of his vehicle. In disposing of his car, Pelkey further alleged, Dan's City did not meet the requirements contained in chapter 262 of the New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated, which regulates the disposal of abandoned vehicles by a "storage company." Dan's City's misconduct, Pelkey charged, both violated New Hampshire's Consumer Protection Act and breached the towing company's statutory and common-law duties as a bailee to use reasonable care while in possession of a bailor's property. The court granted summary judgment to Dan's City, concluding that the FAAAA preempted Pelkey's claims. The New Hampshire Supreme Court reversed. It held the FAAAA's preemption clause inapplicable because Pelkey's claims related to Dan's City's conduct in disposing of his car post-storage, not to conduct concerning "the transportation of property," or a towing company's "service."Held: Section 14501(c)(1) does not preempt state-law claims stemming from the storage and disposal of a towed vehicle. Pp. 7-13.     (a) Where Congress has superseded state legislation by statute, this Court's task is to "identify the domain expressly pre-empted," Lorillard Tobacco Co. v. Reilly, 533 U. S. 525, 541, focusing first on the statutory language, CSX Transp., Inc. v. Easterwood, 507 U. S. 658, 664. In Rowe v. New Hampshire Motor Transp. Assn., 552 U. S. 364, 370, this Court's reading of §14501(c)(1) was informed by decisions interpreting parallel language in the ADA's preemption clause. Thus, the Court held, the phrase "related to" embraces state laws "having a connection with or reference to" carrier " 'rates, routes, or services,' " whether directly or indirectly. Ibid. At the same time, the breadth of the words "related to" does not mean that the preemption clause should be read with an "uncritical literalism." New York State Conference of Blue Cross & Blue Shield Plans v. Travelers Ins. Co., 514 U. S. 645, 655-656. The Court has cautioned that §14501(c)(1) does not preempt state laws affecting carrier prices, routes, and services "in only a 'tenuous, remote, or peripheral . . . manner.' " Rowe, 552 U. S., at 371. Pp. 7-8.     (b) Pelkey's state-law claims escape preemption because they are "related to" neither the "transportation of property" nor the "service" of a motor carrier. Although §14501(c)(1) otherwise tracks the ADA's air-carrier preemption provision, the FAAAA formulation's one conspicuous alteration--addition of the words "with respect to the transportation of property"--significantly limits the FAAAA's preemptive scope. It is not sufficient for a state law to relate to the "price, route, or service" of a motor carrier in any capacity; the law must also concern a motor carrier's "transportation of property." Title 49 defines "transportation," in relevant part, as "services related to th[e] movement" of property, "including arranging for . . . storage [and] handling." §13102(23)(B). Pelkey's Consumer Protection Act and negligence claims are not "related to th[e] movement" of his car. Chapter 262 regulates the disposal of vehicles once their transportation--here, by towing--has ended. Pelkey seeks redress only for conduct occurring after the car ceased moving and was stored. Dan's City maintains that because §13102(23)(B)'s definition of "transportation" includes "storage" and "handling," Pelkey's claims fall within §14501(c)(1)'s preemptive ambit. But "storage" and "handling" fit within §13102(23)(B)'s definition only when those services "relat[e] to th[e] movement" of property. Thus temporary storage of an item in transit en route to its final destination qualifies as "transportation," but permanent storage does not. Here, no storage occurred in the course of transporting Pelkey's vehicle.     Pelkey's claims are also unrelated to a "service" a motor carrier renders its customers. The transportation service Dan's City pro-vided--removal of Pelkey's car from his landlord's parking lot--did involve the movement of property, but that service ended months before the conduct on which Pelkey's claims are based. Because chapter 262, on which Pelkey relies, addresses "storage compan[ies]" and "garage owner[s] or keeper[s]," not transportation activities, it has neither a direct nor an indirect connection to transportation services a motor carrier offers its customers. See Rowe, 552 U. S., at 371.     The conclusion that state-law claims regarding disposal of towed vehicles are not preempted is in full accord with Congress' purpose in enacting §14501(c)(1), which was to displace "a State's direct substitution of its own governmental commands for 'competitive market forces' in determining . . . the services that motor carriers will provide." Id., at 372. The New Hampshire prescriptions Pelkey invokes hardly constrain participation in interstate commerce by requiring a motor carrier to offer services not available in the market. Nor do they "freez[e] into place services that carriers might prefer to discontinue in the future." Ibid. Pp. 8-11.     (c) Dan's City's additional arguments in favor of preemption are not persuasive. Dan's City contends that because none of Pelkey's claims fit within the exceptions to preemption detailed in 49 U. S. C. §§14501(c)(2), (3), and (5), his claims must be preempted. But exceptions, while sometimes a helpful interpretive guide, do not in themselves delineate the scope of the rule. Here, the exceptions identify matters a State may regulate when it would otherwise be precluded from doing so, but they do not control more than that.     Dan's City also maintains that Pelkey's claims are "related to" its towing service because selling Pelkey's car was the means by which Dan's City obtained payment for the tow. If such state-law claims were preempted, no law would govern resolution of a non-contract-based dispute arising from a towing company's disposal of a vehicle previously towed or afford a remedy for wrongful disposal. No such design can be attributed to a rational Congress. See Silkwood v. Kerr-McGee Corp., 464 U. S. 238, 251. Pp. 11-13.163 N. H. 483, 44 A. 3d 480, affirmed.     Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Opinion of the Court?569 U. S. ____ (2013)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 12-52DAN'S CITY USED CARS, INC., dba DAN'S CITY AUTO BODY, PETITIONER v. ROBERT PELKEYon writ of certiorari to the supreme court of new hampshire[May 13, 2013]     Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.     This case concerns the preemptive scope of a provision of the Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act of 1994 (FAAAA or Act) applicable to motor carriers. Codified at 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1), the provision reads:"[A] State . . . may not enact or enforce a law, regulation, or other provision having the force and effect of law related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier . . . with respect to the transportation of property."Plaintiff-respondent Robert Pelkey brought suit under New Hampshire law against defendant-petitioner Dan's City Used Cars (Dan's City), a towing company. Pelkey alleged that Dan's City took custody of his car after towing it without Pelkey's knowledge, failed to notify him of its plan to auction the car, held an auction despite Pelkey's communication that he wanted to arrange for the car's return, and eventually traded the car away without compensating Pelkey for the loss of his vehicle.     Disposal of abandoned vehicles by a "storage company" is regulated by chapter 262 of the New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated. See N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§262:31 to 262:40-c (West 2004 and 2012 West Cum. Supp.). Dan's City relied on those laws to dispose of Pelkey's vehicle for nonpayment of towing and storage fees. According to Pelkey, however, Dan's City failed to comply with New Hampshire's provisions governing the sale of stored vehicles and the application of sale proceeds. Pelkey charged that Dan's City's disposal of his car without following the requirements contained in chapter 262 violated the New Hampshire Consumer Protection Act, §358-A:2 (West 2009), as well as Dan's City's statutory and common-law duties as bailee to exercise reasonable care while in possession of a bailor's property.     We hold, in accord with the New Hampshire Supreme Court, that state-law claims stemming from the storage and disposal of a car, once towing has ended, are not sufficiently connected to a motor carrier's service with respect to the transportation of property to warrant preemption under §14501(c)(1). The New Hampshire law in point regulates no towing services, no carriage of property. Instead, it trains on custodians of stored vehicles seeking to sell them. Congress did not displace the State's regulation of that activity by any federal prescription.IA     The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 (ADA), 92 Stat. 1705, largely deregulated the domestic airline industry. In keeping with the statute's aim to achieve "maximum reliance on competitive market forces," id., at 1706, Congress sought to "ensure that the States would not undo federal deregulation with regulation of their own." Morales v. Trans World Airlines, Inc., 504 U. S. 374, 378 (1992). Congress therefore included a preemption provision, now codified at 49 U. S. C. §41713(b)(1), prohibiting States from enacting or enforcing any law "related to a price, route, or service of an air carrier."     Two years later, the Motor Carrier Act of 1980, 94 Stat. 793, extended deregulation to the trucking industry. Congress completed the deregulation 14 years thereafter, in 1994, by expressly preempting state trucking regulation. Congress did so upon finding that state governance of intrastate transportation of property had become "unreasonably burden[some]" to "free trade, interstate commerce, and American consumers." Columbus v. Ours Ga- rage & Wrecker Service, Inc., 536 U. S. 424, 440 (2002) (citing FAAAA §601(a)(1), 108 Stat. 1605). Borrowing from the ADA's preemption clause, but adding a new qualification, §601(c) of the FAAAA supersedes state laws "related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier . . . with respect to the transportation of property." 108 Stat. 1606, now codified at 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1) (emphasis added).1 The Act exempts certain measures from its preemptive scope, including state laws regulating motor vehicle safety, size, and weight; motor carrier insurance; and the intrastate transportation of household goods. §§14501(c)(2)(A)-(B). Also exempted from preemption are state laws "relating to the price" of "vehicle transportation by a tow truck," if towing occurs without prior consent of the vehicle owner. §14501(c)(2)(C).     This case involves the interaction between the FAAAA's preemption clause and the State of New Hampshire's regulation of the removal, storage, and disposal of abandoned motor vehicles. Chapter 262 of the New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated establishes procedures by which an "authorized official" or the "owner . . . of any private property . . . on which a vehicle is parked without permission" may arrange to have the vehicle towed and stored. N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§262:31 to 262:34, 262:40-a(I). It generally makes the owner of a towed vehicle responsible for reasonable removal and storage fees. See §262:33(I) (reasonable removal and storage charges "shall be a lien against the vehicle which shall be paid by the owner"); §262:33(II) (owner entitled to recover vehicle after "payment of all reasonable towing and storage charges"); §262:40-a(II) (owner of a vehicle towed from a parking lot or parking garage is responsible for "removal and storage charges" when the lot or garage conspicuously posts notice of parking restrictions).     Under chapter 262, the custodian of a car that remains unclaimed for 30 days following a tow may dispose of the vehicle upon compliance with notice requirements. §§262:36-a(I), (II). A "garage owner or keeper" must post notices of an impending sale in public places and provide mail notice to the vehicle owner whenever the owner's address may "be ascertained . . . by the exercise of reasonable diligence." §262:38. If a towed vehicle is not fit for legal use, its custodian need not provide individual or public notice prior to disposal, and sale of the vehicle may occur upon written notice to and approval from New Hampshire's Department of Public Safety. §262:36-a(III).2     On compliance with the statutory requirements, the custodian of a stored vehicle may sell the vehicle by public auction at its place of business. §262:37. The storage company may use the sale proceeds to pay "the amount of the liens and the reasonable expenses incident to the sale." §262:39 (West 2004). Remaining proceeds are payable "to the [vehicle's] owner . . . if claimed at any time within one year from the date of sale." Ibid.B     The landlord of the apartment complex in which Pelkey lived required tenants to remove their cars from the parking lot in the event of a snowstorm, so that the snow could be cleared. Pelkey's 2004 Honda Civic remained in the lot during and after a February 2007 snowstorm. At the landlord's request, Dan's City towed and stored the vehicle. Confined to his bed with a serious medical condition, Pelkey did not know his car had been towed. Soon after removal of his car, Pelkey was admitted to the hospital for a procedure to amputate his left foot, during which he suffered a heart attack. He remained under hospital care until his discharge on April 9, 2007.     Unaware of Pelkey's identity or illness, Dan's City sought permission from New Hampshire's Department of Public Safety to sell the Honda at auction without notice. In response, the department identified Pelkey as the last known owner of the vehicle. Dan's City wrote to Pelkey, notifying him that it had towed and was storing his car. When the post office returned the letter, checking the box "moved, left no address," Dan's City scheduled an auction for April 19. Meanwhile, in the days following Pelkey's discharge from the hospital, his attorney learned from counsel for the apartment complex that the car had been towed by Dan's City and was scheduled to be sold at public auction. On April 17, Pelkey's attorney informed Dan's City that Pelkey wanted to pay any charges owed and reclaim his vehicle. Dan's City nevertheless proceeded with the auction. Attracting no bidders, Dan's City later disposed of the car by trading it to a third party. Pelkey was not notified in advance of the trade, and has received no proceeds from the sale.     Pelkey brought suit against Dan's City in New Hampshire Superior Court. He alleged that Dan's City violated the New Hampshire Consumer Protection Act, N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §358-A:2, by failing to comply with chapter 262's requirements for disposal of stored vehicles, making false statements about the condition and value of his Honda, and proceeding with the auction despite notice that Pelkey wanted to reclaim the car.3 He also alleged that Dan's City negligently breached both statutory and common-law duties as a bailee to use reasonable care in disposing of the car. Granting summary judgment to Dan's City, the New Hampshire Superior Court concluded that Pelkey's claims were preempted by the FAAAA.     The New Hampshire Supreme Court reversed. It held the FAAAA's preemption clause, 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1), inapplicable because Pelkey's claims related to Dan's City's conduct in disposing of his Honda post-storage, not to conduct concerning "the transportation of property." 163 N. H. 483, 490-493, 44 A. 3d 480, 487-489 (2012) (emphasis deleted). Alternatively, the court ruled that, even if Pelkey's claims could be said to concern the transportation of property, they did not "sufficiently relat[e] to a towing company's 'service' to be preempted." Id., at 493, 44 A. 3d, at 490.     We granted certiorari to resolve a division of opinion in state supreme courts on whether 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1) preempts a vehicle owner's state-law claims against a towing company regarding the company's post-towing disposal of the vehicle. 568 U. S. ___ (2012). Compare 163 N. H. 483, 44 A. 3d 480 (this case), with Weatherspoon v. Tillery Body Shop, Inc., 44 So. 3d 447, 458 (Ala. 2010) (§14501(c)(1) preempts state statutory and common-law claims arising out of storage and sale of a towed vehicle).IIA     Where, as in this case, Congress has superseded state legislation by statute, our task is to "identify the domain expressly pre-empted." Lorillard Tobacco Co. v. Reilly, 533 U. S. 525, 541 (2001). To do so, we focus first on the statutory language, "which necessarily contains the best evidence of Congress' pre-emptive intent." CSX Transp., Inc. v. Easterwood, 507 U. S. 658, 664 (1993).     The FAAAA's preemption clause prohibits enforcement of state laws "related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier . . . with respect to the transportation of property." 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1). In Rowe v. New Hampshire Motor Transp. Assn., 552 U. S. 364, 370 (2008), our reading of this language was informed by decisions interpreting the parallel language in the ADA's preemption clause. The phrase "related to," we said, embraces state laws "having a connection with or reference to" carrier " 'rates, routes, or services,' " whether directly or indirectly. Ibid. (quoting Morales, 504 U. S., at 384; emphasis deleted). See also id., at 383 ("ordinary meaning of . . . words ['related to'] is a broad one," thus ADA's use of those words "expresses a broad pre-emptive purpose").     At the same time, the breadth of the words "related to" does not mean the sky is the limit. We have refused to read the preemption clause of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, 29 U. S. C. §1144(a), which supersedes state laws "relate[d] to any employee benefit plan," with an "uncritical literalism," else "for all practical purposes pre-emption would never run its course." New York State Conference of Blue Cross & Blue Shield Plans v. Travelers Ins. Co., 514 U. S. 645, 655-656 (1995) (internal quotation marks omitted). And we have cautioned that §14501(c)(1) does not preempt state laws affecting carrier prices, routes, and services "in only a 'tenuous, remote, or peripheral . . . manner.' " Rowe, 552 U. S., at 371 (quoting Morales, 504 U. S., at 390).B     The New Hampshire Supreme Court concluded that Pelkey's state-law claims are "related to" neither the "transportation of property" nor the "service" of a motor carrier. We agree.     Pelkey's claims escape preemption, we hold, because they are not "related to" the service of a motor carrier "with respect to the transportation of property." §14501(c)(1). Although §14501(c)(1) otherwise tracks the ADA's air-carrier preemption provision, see Rowe, 552 U. S., at 370, the FAAAA formulation contains one conspicuous alteration--the addition of the words "with respect to the transportation of property." That phrase "massively limits the scope of preemption" ordered by the FAAAA. Ours Garage, 536 U. S., at 449 (Scalia, J., dissenting).4 As the New Hampshire Supreme Court correctly understood, for purposes of FAAAA preemption, it is not sufficient that a state law relates to the "price, route, or service" of a motor carrier in any capacity; the law must also concern a motor carrier's "transportation of property." See 163 N. H., at 490, 44 A. 3d, at 487.     Title 49 defines "transportation," in relevant part, as "services related to th[e] movement" of property, "including arranging for, receipt, delivery, elevation, transfer in transit, refrigeration, icing, ventilation, storage, handling, packing, unpacking, and interchange of passengers and property." §13102(23)(B). Pelkey's Consumer Protection Act and negligence claims are not "related to th[e] movement" of his car. Ibid. (emphasis added). He charges Dan's City with failure to comply with chapter 262 and neglect of its statutory and common-law duties of care as a bailee of his stored vehicle. Chapter 262 does not limit when, where, or how tow trucks may be operated. The Chapter regulates, instead, the disposal of vehicles once their transportation--here, by towing--has ended. Pelkey does not object to the manner in which his car was moved or the price of the tow; he seeks redress only for conduct subsequent to "transportation," conduct occurring after the car ceased moving and was stored.     Dan's City maintains that because §13102(23)(B)'s definition of "transportation" includes "storage" and "handling," Pelkey's claims, which do concern the storage and handling of his car, fall within §14501(c)(1)'s preemptive ambit. Dan's City overlooks, however, that under §13102(23)(B), services such as "storage" and "handling" fit within the definition of "transportation" only when those services "relat[e] to th[e] movement" of property. Temporary storage of an item in transit en route to its final destination relates to the movement of property and therefore fits within §13102(23)(B)'s definition. But property stored after delivery is no longer in transit. Cf. 49 CFR §375.609 (2012) (distinguishing between "storage-in-transit" and "permanent storage" (regulation of Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration)). Here, no storage occurred in the course of transporting Pelkey's vehicle. Dan's City's storage of Pelkey's car after the towing job was done, in short, does not involve "transportation" within the meaning of the federal Act.     Pelkey's claims also survive preemption under §14501(c)(1) because they are unrelated to a "service" a motor carrier renders its customers. The transportation service Dan's City provided was the removal of Pelkey's car from his landlord's parking lot. That service, which did involve the movement of property, ended months before the conduct on which Pelkey's claims are based. His claims rely on New Hampshire's abandoned vehicle disposal regime, prescribed in chapter 262, for the rules governing Dan's City's conduct.5 Chapter 262 addresses "storage compan[ies]" and "garage owner[s] or keeper[s]," not transportation activities. See N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§262:36-a, 262:38. Unlike Maine's tobacco delivery regulations at issue in Rowe, chapter 262 has neither a direct nor an indirect connection to any transportation services a motor carrier offers its customers. See 552 U. S., at 371. We need not venture an all-purposes definition of transportation "service[s]" in order to conclude that state-law claims homing in on the disposal of stored vehicles fall outside §14501(c)(1)'s preemptive compass.     Our conclusion that state-law claims regarding disposal of towed vehicles are not preempted is in full accord with Congress' purpose in enacting §14501(c)(1). Concerned that state regulation "impeded the free flow of trade, traffic, and transportation of interstate commerce," Congress resolved to displace "certain aspects of the State regulatory process." FAAAA §601(a), 108 Stat. 1605 (emphasis added). The target at which it aimed was "a State's direct substitution of its own governmental commands for competitive market forces in determining (to a significant degree) the services that motor carriers will provide." Rowe, 552 U. S., at 372 (internal quotation marks omitted).     Pelkey's claims are far removed from Congress' driving concern. He sued under state consumer protection and tort laws to gain compensation for the alleged unlawful disposal of his vehicle. The state laws in question hardly constrain participation in interstate commerce by requiring a motor carrier to offer services not available in the market. Nor do the state laws invoked by Pelkey "freez[e] into place services that carriers might prefer to discontinue in the future." Ibid. New Hampshire's laws on disposal of stored vehicles, moreover, will not open the way for "a patchwork of state service-determining laws, rules, and regulations." Id., at 373. As Dan's City concedes, abandoned vehicle laws like chapter 262 "do not hamper the operations of tow truckers" and "are not the kind of burdensome state economic regulation Congress sought to preempt." Reply Brief 21.C     Dan's City advances two further arguments in favor of preemption. First, Dan's City contends that Congress' enumeration of exceptions to preemption, detailed in 49 U. S. C. §§14501(c)(2), (3), and (5), permits state regulation of motor carriers only when the State's law comes within a specified exception. Because Pelkey's claims do not fit within any exception to preemption, Dan's City urges, those claims must be preempted. This argument exceeds sensible bounds. Exceptions to a general rule, while sometimes a helpful interpretive guide, do not in themselves delineate the scope of the rule. The exceptions to §14501(c)(1)'s general rule of preemption identify matters a State may regulate when it would otherwise be precluded from doing so, but they do not control more than that.     An example may clarify the point. Section 14501(c) does not exempt zoning regulations. Such laws, however, "are peculiarly within the province of state and local legislative authorities." Warth v. Seldin, 422 U. S. 490, 508, n. 18 (1975). It is hardly doubtful that state or local regulation of the physical location of motor-carrier operations falls outside the preemptive sweep of §14501(c)(1). That is so because zoning ordinances ordinarily are not "related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier . . . with respect to the transportation of property." §14501(c)(1). The same is true of New Hampshire's regulation of the disposal of stored vehicles.     Dan's City, in a second argument, urges otherwise. Pelkey's claims, Dan's City maintains, are "related to" the towing service it rendered because selling Pelkey's car was the means by which Dan's City obtained payment for the tow. But if such state-law claims are preempted, no law would govern resolution of a non-contract-based dispute arising from a towing company's disposal of a vehicle previously towed or afford a remedy for wrongful disposal. Federal law does not speak to these issues.6 Thus, not only would the preemption urged by Dan's City leave vehicle owners without any recourse for damages, it would eliminate the sole legal authorization for a towing company's disposal of stored vehicles that go unclaimed. No such design can be attributed to a rational Congress. See Silkwood v. Kerr-McGee Corp., 464 U. S. 238, 251 (1984) ("It is difficult to believe that Congress would, without comment, remove all means of judicial recourse for those injured by illegal conduct.").     In sum, Dan's City cannot have it both ways. It cannot rely on New Hampshire's regulatory framework as authorization for the sale of Pelkey's car, yet argue that Pelkey's claims, invoking the same state-law regime, are preempted. New Hampshire's legislation on abandoned vehicles gave rise to Pelkey's debt and established the conditions under which Dan's City could collect on that debt by selling Pelkey's Honda. See N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§262:33, 262:36-a, 262:40-a; supra, at 3-5. Pelkey's claims, attacking Dan's City's conduct in disposing of the vehicle, rest on the very same provisions. See Brief for Petitioner 41 ("All of the alleged wrongful conduct of Dan's City was part of the state sanctioned and regulated process for disposing of abandoned vehicles under Ch. 262.").*??*??*     For the reasons stated, we hold that 49 U. S. C. §14501(c)(1) does not preempt state-law claims for damages stemming from the storage and disposal of a towed vehicle. The judgment of the New Hampshire Supreme Court is therefore affirmed.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESThe Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA), 21 U. S. C. §601 et seq., regulates a broad range of activities at slaughterhouses to ensure the safety of meat and the humane handling of animals. The Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), which administers the FMIA, has issued extensive regulations to govern the inspection of animals and meat, as well as other aspects of slaughterhouses' operations and facilities. See 9 CFR §300.1 et seq. The FSIS inspection procedure begins with an "ante-mortem" inspection of each animal brought to a slaughterhouse. If, at that inspection, a nonambulatory animal is found to suffer from a particularly severe disease or condition, it must be classified as "U. S. Condemned" and killed apart from the slaughtering facilities where food is produced. §§309.3, 311.1 et seq. Nonambulatory animals that are not condemned are classified as "U. S. Suspect." §309.2(b). They are set apart, specially monitored, and "slaughtered separately from other livestock." §309.2(n). Following slaughter, an inspector decides at a "post-mortem" examination which parts, if any, of the suspect animal's carcass may be processed into food for humans. See 9 CFR pts. 310, 311. FSIS regulations additionally prescribe methods for handling animals humanely at all stages of the slaughtering process, 9 CFR pt. 313, including specific provisions for the humane treatment of nonambulatory animals, 9 CFR 313.2(d).          The FMIA's preemption clause, §678, precludes states from imposing requirements that are "within the scope" of the FMIA, relate to slaughterhouse "premises, facilities and operations," and are "in addition to, or different than those made under" the FMIA. In 2008, California amended its penal code to provide that no slaughterhouse shall "buy, sell, or receive a nonambulatory animal"; "process, butcher, or sell meat or products of nonambulatory animals for human consumption"; or "hold a nonambulatory animal without taking immediate action to humanely euthanize the animal." §§599f(a)-(c). Petitioner National Meat Association (NMA), a trade association representing meatpackers and processors, sued to enjoin enforcement of §599f against swine slaughterhouses, arguing that the FMIA preempts application of the state law. The District Court agreed, and granted the NMA a preliminary injunction. The Ninth Circuit reversed, holding that §599f is not preempted because it regulates only "the kind of animal that may be slaughtered," not the inspection or slaughtering process itself.Held: The FMIA expressly preempts §599f's application against federally inspected swine slaughterhouses. Pp. 6?14.     (a) The FMIA's preemption clause sweeps widely, and so blocks the applications of §599f challenged here. The clause prevents a State from imposing any additional or different?even if nonconflicting?requirements that fall within the FMIA's scope and concern slaughterhouse facilities or operations. Section 599f imposes additional or different requirements on swine slaughterhouses: Where under federal law a slaughterhouse may take one course of action in handling a nonambulatory pig, under state law the slaughterhouse must take another. For example, when a pig becomes injured and thus nonambulatory sometime after delivery to a slaughterhouse, §599f(c) prohibits the slaughterhouse from "hold[ing]" the pig without immediately euthanizing it; and §599f(b) prohibits the slaughterhouse from "process[ing]" or "butcher[ing]" the animal to make food. By contrast, the FMIA and its regulations allow a slaughterhouse to hold (without euthanizing) any nonambulatory animal that has not been condemned, and to process and butcher such an animal's meat, subject to an FSIS official's approval at post-mortem inspection. Similarly, when a pig is nonambulatory at the time of delivery, §599f(a) prohibits a slaughterhouse from "receiv[ing]" or "buy[ing]" the pig. But the FMIA and its regulations expressly allow slaughterhouses to purchase nonambulatory pigs. See 21 U. S. C. §644; 9 CFR §325.20(c). And the FSIS inspection regime clearly contemplates that slaughterhouses will receive nonambulatory animals. So §599f substitutes a new regulatory regime for the one the FMIA prescribes.     Respondent Humane Society argues that §599f(a)'s ban on purchasing nonambulatory animals escapes preemption because it would not be preempted if applied to purchases occurring off slaughterhouse premises. But the record does not disclose whether §599f(a) ever applies beyond the slaughterhouse gate, much less how an application of that kind would affect a slaughterhouse's operations. Moreover, even if the State could regulate off-site purchases, it does not follow that on-site purchases would escape preemption, because the FMIA's preemption clause expressly focuses on slaughterhouse "premises, facilities and operations." And while the Humane Society is correct that the FMIA does not normally regulate slaughterhouse sales activities, §599f's sales ban serves to regulate how slaughterhouses must handle nonambulatory pigs on their premises. Its effect is to make sure that slaughterhouses remove nonambulatory pigs from the production process. It is therefore preempted by the FMIA. Pp. 6?10.     (b) Also rejected is the broad argument that §599f's challenged provisions fall outside the FMIA's scope because they exclude a class of animals from the slaughtering process, while the FMIA extends only to "animals that are going to be turned into meat." In fact, the FMIA regulates animals on slaughterhouse premises that will never be turned into meat. For example, the Act's implementing regulations exclude many classes of animals from the slaughtering process, e.g., swine with hog cholera, 9 CFR §309.5(a). The argument that §599f's exclusion avoids the FMIA's scope because it is designed to ensure the humane treatment of pigs, rather than meat safety, misunderstands the FMIA's scope. The FMIA addresses not just food safety, but humane treatment, as well. See, e.g., 21 U. S. C. §§603, 610(b). Pp. 11?14.599 F. 3d 1093, reversed and remanded.     Kagan, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Opinion of the Court?565 U. S. ____ (2012)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 10-224NATIONAL MEAT ASSOCIATION, PETITIONER v. KAMALA D. HARRIS, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF CALIFORNIA, et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[January 23, 2012]     Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the Court.     The Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA or Act), 21 U. S. C. §601 et seq., regulates the inspection, handling, and slaughter of livestock for human consumption. We consider here whether the FMIA expressly preempts a California law dictating what slaughterhouses must do with pigs that cannot walk, known in the trade as nonambulatory pigs. We hold that the FMIA forecloses the challenged applications of the state statute.IA     The FMIA regulates a broad range of activities at slaughterhouses to ensure both the safety of meat and the humane handling of animals.1 First enacted in 1906, after Upton Sinclair's muckraking novel The Jungle sparked an uproar over conditions in the meatpacking industry, the Act establishes "an elaborate system of inspecti[ng]" live animals and carcasses in order "to prevent the shipment of impure, unwholesome, and unfit meat and meat-food products." Pittsburgh Melting Co. v. Totten, 248 U. S. 1, 4-5 (1918). And since amended in 1978, see 92 Stat. 1069, the FMIA requires all slaughterhouses to comply with the standards for humane handling and slaughter of animals set out in the Humane Methods of Slaughter Act of 1958, (HMSA), 72 Stat. 862, 7 U. S. C. §1901 et seq., which originally applied only to slaughterhouses selling meat to the Federal Government.     The Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) has responsibility for administering the FMIA to promote its dual goals of safe meat and humane slaughter. Over the years, the FSIS has issued extensive regulations to govern the inspection of animals and meat, as well as other aspects of slaughterhouses' operations and facilities. See 9 CFR §300.1 et seq. (2011). The FSIS employs about 9,000 inspectors, veterinarians, and investigators to implement its inspection regime and enforce its humane-handling requirements. See Hearings on 2012 Appropriations before the Subcommittee on Agriculture of the House Committee on Appropriations, 112th Cong., 1st Sess., pt. 1B, p. 921 (2011). In fiscal year 2010, those personnel examined about 147 million head of livestock and carried out more than 126,000 "humane handling verification procedures." Id., at 942-943.     The FSIS's inspection procedure begins with an "ante-mortem" examination of each animal brought to a slaughterhouse. See 9 CFR §309.1. If the inspector finds no evidence of disease or injury, he approves the animal for slaughter. If, at the other end of the spectrum, the inspector sees that an animal is dead or dying, comatose, suffering from a high fever, or afflicted with a serious disease or condition, he designates the animal as "U. S. Condemned." See §309.3; §311.1 et seq. (listing diseases requiring condemnation). A condemned animal (if not already dead) must be killed apart from the slaughtering facilities where food is produced, and no part of its carcass may be sold for human consumption. See §309.13(a); 21 U. S. C. §610(c).     The inspector also has an intermediate option: If he determines that an animal has a less severe condition--or merely suspects the animal of having a disease meriting condemnation--he classifies the animal as "U. S. Suspect." See 9 CFR §309.2. That category includes all nonambulatory animals not found to require condemnation.2 See §309.2(b). Suspect livestock must be "set apart," specially monitored, and (if not reclassified because of a change in condition) "slaughtered separately from other livestock." §309.2(n). Following slaughter, an inspector decides at a "post-mortem" examination which parts, if any, of the suspect animal's carcass may be processed into food for humans. See 9 CFR pts. 310, 311.     The regulations implementing the FMIA additionally prescribe methods for handling animals humanely at all stages of the slaughtering process. Those rules apply from the moment a truck carrying livestock "enters, or is in line to enter," a slaughterhouse's premises. Humane Handling and Slaughter of Livestock, FSIS Directive 6900.2, ch. II(I) (rev. Aug. 15, 2011). And they include specific provisions for the humane treatment of animals that cannot walk. See 9 CFR §313.2(d). Under the regulations, slaughterhouse employees may not drag conscious, nonambulatory animals, see §313.2(d)(2), and may move them only with "equipment suitable for such purposes," §313.2(d)(3). Similarly, employees must place nonambulatory animals, as well as other sick and disabled livestock, in covered pens sufficient to protect the animals from "adverse climatic conditions." See §313.2(d)(1); §313.1(c).     The FMIA contains an express preemption provision, at issue here, addressing state laws on these and similar matters. That provision's first sentence reads:"Requirements within the scope of this [Act] with respect to premises, facilities and operations of any establishment at which inspection is provided under . . . this [Act] which are in addition to, or different than those made under this [Act] may not be imposed by any State." 21 U. S. C. §678.3B     In 2008, the Humane Society of the United States released an undercover video showing workers at a slaughterhouse in California dragging, kicking, and electro-shocking sick and disabled cows in an effort to move them. The video led the Federal Government to institute the largest beef recall in U. S. history in order to prevent consumption of meat from diseased animals. Of greater relevance here, the video also prompted the California legislature to strengthen a pre-existing statute governing the treatment of nonambulatory animals and to apply that statute to slaughterhouses regulated under the FMIA. See National Meat Assn. v. Brown, 599 F. 3d 1093, 1096 (CA9 2010).     As amended, the California law--§599f of the state penal code--provides in relevant part:     "(a) No slaughterhouse, stockyard, auction, market agency, or dealer shall buy, sell, or receive a nonambulatory animal.     "(b) No slaughterhouse shall process, butcher, or sell meat or products of nonambulatory animals for human consumption.     "(c) No slaughterhouse shall hold a nonambulatory animal without taking immediate action to humanely euthanize the animal." Cal. Penal Code Ann. §599f (West 2010).The maximum penalty for violating any of these prohibitions is one year in jail and a $20,000 fine. See §599f(h).     Petitioner National Meat Association (NMA) is a trade association representing meatpackers and processors, in-cluding operators of swine slaughterhouses. It sued to enjoin the enforcement of §599f against those slaughterhouses, principally on the ground that the FMIA preempts application of the state law.4 The District Court granted the NMA's motion for a preliminary injunction, reasoning that §599f is expressly preempted because it requires swine "to be handled in a manner other than that prescribed by the FMIA" and its regulations. App. to Pet. for Cert. 36a. But the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit vacated the injunction. According to that court, the FMIA does not expressly preempt §599f because the state law regulates only "the kind of animal that may be slaughtered," and not the inspection or slaughtering process itself. 599 F. 3d, at 1098.     We granted certiorari, 564 U. S. __ (2011), and now reverse.II     The FMIA's preemption clause sweeps widely--and in so doing, blocks the applications of §599f challenged here. The clause prevents a State from imposing any additional or different--even if non-conflicting--requirements that fall within the scope of the Act and concern a slaughterhouse's facilities or operations. And at every turn §599f imposes additional or different requirements on swine slaughterhouses: It compels them to deal with nonambulatory pigs on their premises in ways that the federal Act and regulations do not. In essence, California's statute substitutes a new regulatory scheme for the one the FSIS uses. Where under federal law a slaughterhouse may take one course of action in handling a nonambulatory pig, under state law the slaughterhouse must take another.     Consider first what the two statutes tell a slaughterhouse to do when (as not infrequently occurs) a pig becomes injured and thus nonambulatory sometime after delivery to the slaughterhouse.5 Section 599f(c) prohibits the slaughterhouse from "hold[ing]" such an animal "without taking immediate action to humanely euthanize" it. And §599f(b) provides that no part of the animal's carcass may be "process[ed]" or "butcher[ed]" to make food. By contrast, under the FMIA and its regulations, a slaughterhouse may hold (without euthanizing) any nonambulatory pig that has not been condemned. See supra, at 3. And the slaughterhouse may process or butcher such an animal's meat for human consumption, subject to an FSIS official's approval at a post-mortem inspection. See ibid. The State's proscriptions thus exceed the FMIA's. To be sure, nothing in the federal Act requires what the state law forbids (or forbids what the state law requires); California is right to note that "[t]he FMIA does not mandate that 'U. S. Suspect' [nonambulatory] animals . . . be placed into the human food production process." Brief for State Respondents 31. But that is irrelevant, because the FMIA's preemption clause covers not just conflicting, but also different or additional state requirements. It therefore precludes California's effort in §§599f(b) and (c) to im-pose new rules, beyond any the FSIS has chosen to adopt, on what a slaughterhouse must do with a pig that be-comes nonambulatory during the production process.     Similarly, consider how the state and federal laws address what a slaughterhouse should do when a pig is non-ambulatory at the time of delivery, usually because of harsh transportation conditions.6 Section 599f(a) of the California law bars a slaughterhouse from "receiv[ing]" or "buy[ing]" such a pig, thus obligating the slaughterhouse to refuse delivery of the animal.7 But that directive, too, deviates from any imposed by federal law. A regulation issued under the FMIA specifically authorizes slaughterhouses to buy disabled or diseased animals (including nonambulatory swine), by exempting them from a general prohibition on such purchases. See 9 CFR §325.20(c). And other regulations contemplate that slaughterhouses will in fact take, rather than refuse, receipt of nonambulatory swine. Recall that the FMIA's regulations provide for the inspection of all pigs at delivery, see supra, at 2--in the case of nonambulatory pigs, often right on the truck, see Humane Handling and Slaughter of Livestock, FSIS Directive 6900.2, ch. II(I). They further instruct slaughterhouses to kill and dispose of any nonambulatory pigs labeled "condemned," and to slaughter separately those marked "suspect." See supra, at 3. In short, federal law establishes rules for handling and slaughtering nonam-bulatory pigs brought to a slaughterhouse, rather than ordering them returned to sender. So §599f(a) and the FMIA require different things of a slaughterhouse confronted with a delivery truck containing nonambulatory swine. The former says "do not receive or buy them"; the latter does not.     The Humane Society counters that at least §599f(a)'s ban on buying nonambulatory animals escapes preemption because that provision applies no matter when or where a purchase takes place. The argument proceeds in three steps: (1) §599f(a)'s ban covers purchases of non-ambulatory pigs made prior to delivery, away from the slaughterhouse itself (say, at a farm or auction); (2) the State may regulate such offsite purchases because they do not involve a slaughterhouse's "premises, facilities and operations," which is a condition of preemption under the FMIA; and (3) no different result should obtain just because a slaughterhouse structures its swine purchases to occur at delivery, on its own property. See Brief for Non-State Respondents 43-45.     But this argument fails on two grounds. First, its preliminary steps have no foundation in the record. Until a stray comment at oral argument, see Tr. of Oral Arg. 50, neither the State nor the Humane Society had disputed the NMA's assertion that slaughterhouses buy pigs at delivery (or still later, upon successful ante-mortem inspection). See Brief for Petitioner 46, n. 18; Brief for Non-State Respondents 44; Brief for State Respondents 16, n. 5. Nor had the parties presented evidence that a significant number of pigs become nonambulatory before shipment, when any offsite purchases would occur. The record therefore does not disclose whether §599f(a)'s ban on purchase ever applies beyond the slaughterhouse gate, much less how an application of that kind would affect a slaughterhouse's operations. And because that is so, we have no basis for deciding whether the FMIA would preempt it. Second, even assuming that a State could regulate offsite purchases, the concluding step of the Humane Society's argument would not follow. The FMIA's preemption clause expressly focuses on "premises, facilities and operations"--at bottom, the slaughtering and processing of animals at a given location. So the distinction between a slaughterhouse's site-based activities and its more far-flung commercial dealings is not, as the Humane Society contends, an anomaly that courts should strain to avoid. It is instead a fundamental feature of the FMIA's preemption clause.     For that reason, the Humane Society's stronger argument concerns California's effort to regulate the last stage of a slaughterhouse's business--the ban in §599f(b) on "sell[ing] meat or products of nonambulatory animals for human consumption." The Government acknowledges that the FMIA's preemption clause does not usually foreclose "state regulation of the commercial sales activities of slaughterhouses." Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 17. And the Humane Society asserts, in line with that general rule, that §599f(b)'s ban on sales does not regulate a slaughterhouse's "operations" because it kicks in only after they have ended: Once meat from a slaughtered pig has passed a post-mortem inspection, the Act "is not concerned with whether or how it is ever actually sold." Brief for Non-State Respondents 45. At most, the Humane Society claims, §599f(b)'s ban on sales offers an "incentiv[e]" to a slaughterhouse to take nonambulatory pigs out of the meat production process. Id., at 46. And California may so "motivate[]" an operational choice without running afoul of the FMIA's preemption provision. Ibid. (quoting Bates v. Dow Agrosciences LLC, 544 U. S. 431, 443 (2005)).     But this argument mistakes how the prohibition on sales operates within §599f as a whole. The sales ban is a criminal proscription calculated to help implement and enforce each of the section's other regulations--its prohibition of receipt and purchase, its bar on butchering and processing, and its mandate of immediate euthanasia. The idea--and the inevitable effect--of the provision is to make sure that slaughterhouses remove nonambulatory pigs from the production process (or keep them out of the process from the beginning) by criminalizing the sale of their meat. That, we think, is something more than an "incentive" or "motivat[or]"; the sales ban instead functions as a command to slaughterhouses to structure their operations in the exact way the remainder of §599f mandates. And indeed, if the sales ban were to avoid the FMIA's preemption clause, then any State could impose any regulation on slaughterhouses just by framing it as a ban on the sale of meat produced in whatever way the State disapproved. That would make a mockery of the FMIA's preemption provision. Cf. Engine Mfrs. Assn. v. South Coast Air Quality Management Dist., 541 U. S. 246, 255 (2004) (stating that it "would make no sense" to allow state regulations to escape preemption because they addressed the purchase, rather than manufacture, of a federally regulated product). Like the rest of §599f, the sales ban regulates how slaughterhouses must deal with non-ambulatory pigs on their premises. The FMIA therefore preempts it for all the same reasons.III     California's and the Humane Society's broadest argument against preemption maintains that all of §599f's challenged provisions fall outside the "scope" of the FMIA because they exclude a class of animals from the slaughtering process. See 21 U. S. C. §678 (preempting certain requirements "within the scope of this [Act]"). According to this view, the Act (and the FSIS's authority under it) extends only to "animals that are going to be turned into meat," Tr. of Oral Arg. 28--or to use another phrase, animals that will "be slaughtered . . . for purposes of human food production," Brief for State Respondents 19 (emphasis deleted). Section 599f avoids the scope of the Act, respondents claim, by altogether removing nonambulatory pigs from the slaughtering process.8 The Ninth Circuit accepted this argument, analogizing §599f to state laws upheld in two other Circuits banning the slaughter of horses for human consumption. 599 F. 3d, at 1098 (discussing Cavel Int'l., Inc. v. Madigan, 500 F. 3d 551 (CA7 2007), and Empacadora de Carnes de Fresnillo, S. A. de C.V. v. Curry, 476 F. 3d 326 (CA5 2007)). According to the Court of Appeals, "states are free to decide which animals may be turned into meat." 599 F. 3d, at 1098, 1099.     We think not. The FMIA's scope includes not only "animals that are going to be turned into meat," but animals on a slaughterhouse's premises that will never suffer that fate. The Act's implementing regulations themselves exclude many classes of animals from the slaughtering process. Swine with hog cholera, for example, are disqualified, see 9 CFR §309.5(a); so too are swine and other livestock "affected with anthrax," §309.7(a). Indeed, the federal regulations prohibit the slaughter of any nonambulatory cattle for human consumption. See §309.3(e). As these examples demonstrate, one vital function of the Act and its regulations is to ensure that some kinds of livestock delivered to a slaughterhouse's gates will not be turned into meat. Under federal law, nonambulatory pigs are not among those excluded animals. But that is to say only that §599f's requirements differ from those of the FMIA--not that §599f's requirements fall outside the FMIA's scope.     Nor are respondents right to suggest that §599f's exclusion avoids the FMIA's scope because it is designed to ensure the humane treatment of pigs, rather than the safety of meat. See, e.g., Brief for State Respondents 29; Brief for Non-State Respondents 39-40. That view misunderstands the authority--and indeed responsibility--that the FMIA gives to federal officials. Since 1978, when Congress incorporated the HMSA's standards, the FMIA has required slaughterhouses to follow prescribed methods of humane handling, so as to minimize animals' pain and suffering. See 21 U. S. C. §§603(b), 610(b); supra, at 2-4. A violation of those standards is a crime, see §676, and the Secretary of Agriculture can suspend inspections at--and thus effectively shut down--a slaughterhouse that dis-obeys them, see §§603(b), 610(c). To implement the Act's humane-handling provisions, the FSIS has issued detailed regulations, see 9 CFR pt. 313, including some specifically addressing animals that cannot walk, see §§313.2(d), 313.1(c). Those rules, as earlier noted, apply throughout the time an animal is on a slaughterhouse's premises, from the moment a delivery truck pulls up to the gate. See supra, at 3-4. So the FMIA addresses not just food safety, but humane treatment as well. Even California conceded at oral argument that the FSIS could issue regulations under the FMIA, similar to §599f, mandating the euthanasia of nonambulatory swine.9 See Tr. of Oral Arg. 46-47. If that is so--and it is, because of the FSIS's authority over humane-handling methods--then §599f's requirements must fall within the FMIA's scope.     The Circuit decisions upholding state bans on slaughtering horses, on which the Ninth Circuit relied, do not demand any different conclusion. We express no view on those decisions, except to say that the laws sustained there differ from §599f in a significant respect. A ban on butchering horses for human consumption works at a remove from the sites and activities that the FMIA most directly governs. When such a ban is in effect, no horses will be delivered to, inspected at, or handled by a slaughterhouse, because no horses will be ordered for purchase in the first instance. But §599f does not and cannot work in that way. As earlier noted, many nonambulatory pigs become disabled either in transit to or after arrival at a slaughterhouse. See supra, at 6-9, and nn. 5-6. So even with §599f in effect, a swine slaughterhouse will encounter nonambulatory pigs. In that circumstance, §599f tells the slaughterhouse what to do with those animals. Unlike a horse slaughtering ban, the statute thus reaches into the slaughterhouse's facilities and affects its daily activities. And in so doing, the California law runs smack into the FMIA's regulations. So whatever might be said of other bans on slaughter, §599f imposes requirements within--and indeed at the very heart of--the FMIA's scope.10IV     The FMIA regulates slaughterhouses' handling and treatment of nonambulatory pigs from the moment of their delivery through the end of the meat production process. California's §599f endeavors to regulate the same thing, at the same time, in the same place--except by imposing different requirements. The FMIA expressly preempts such a state law. Accordingly, we reverse the judgment of the Ninth Circuit, and remand this case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESRespondents, representing the video-game and software industries, filed a preenforcement challenge to a California law that restricts the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. The Federal District Court concluded that the Act violated the First Amendment and permanently enjoined its enforcement. The Ninth Circuit affirmed.Held: The Act does not comport with the First Amendment. Pp. 2-18.     (a) Video games qualify for First Amendment protection. Like protected books, plays, and movies, they communicate ideas through familiar literary devices and features distinctive to the medium. And "the basic principles of freedom of speech ... do not vary" with a new and different communication medium. Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson, 343 U. S. 495, 503. The most basic principle--that government lacks the power to restrict expression because of its message, ideas, subject matter, or content, Ashcroft v. American Civil Liberties Union, 535 U. S. 564, 573--is subject to a few limited exceptions for historically unprotected speech, such as obscenity, incitement, and fighting words. But a legislature cannot create new categories of unprotected speech simply by weighing the value of a particular category against its social costs and then punishing it if it fails the test. See United States v. Stevens, 559 U. S. ___, ___. Unlike the New York law upheld in Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U. S. 629, California's Act does not adjust the boundaries of an existing category of unprotected speech to ensure that a definition designed for adults is not uncritically applied to children. Instead, the State wishes to create a wholly new category of content-based regulation that is permissible only for speech directed at children. That is unprecedented and mistaken. This country has no tradition of specially restricting children's access to depictions of violence. And California's claim that "interactive" video games present special problems, in that the player participates in the violent action on screen and determines its outcome, is unpersuasive. Pp. 2-11.     (b) Because the Act imposes a restriction on the content of protected speech, it is invalid unless California can demonstrate that it passes strict scrutiny, i.e., it is justified by a compelling government interest and is narrowly drawn to serve that interest. R. A. V. v. St. Paul, 505 U. S. 377, 395. California cannot meet that standard. Psychological studies purporting to show a connection between exposure to violent video games and harmful effects on children do not prove that such exposure causes minors to act aggressively. Any demonstrated effects are both small and indistinguishable from effects produced by other media. Since California has declined to restrict those other media, e.g., Saturday morning cartoons, its video-game regulation is wildly underinclusive, raising serious doubts about whether the State is pursuing the interest it invokes or is instead disfavoring a particular speaker or viewpoint. California also cannot show that the Act's restrictions meet the alleged substantial need of parents who wish to restrict their children's access to violent videos. The video-game industry's voluntary rating system already accomplishes that to a large extent. Moreover, as a means of assisting parents the Act is greatly overinclusive, since not all of the children who are prohibited from purchasing violent video games have parents who disapprove of their doing so. The Act cannot satisfy strict scrutiny. Pp. 11-18.556 F. 3d 950, affirmed.     Scalia, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Kennedy, Ginsburg, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined. Alito, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which Roberts, C. J., joined. Thomas, J., and Breyer, J., filed dissenting opinions.EDMUND G. BROWN, Jr., GOVERNOR OF CAL- IFORNIA, et al., PETITIONERS v. ENTERTAIN- MENT MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[June 27, 2011]     Justice Scalia delivered the opinion of the Court.     We consider whether a California law imposing restrictions on violent video games comports with the First Amendment.I     California Assembly Bill 1179 (2005), Cal. Civ. Code Ann. §§1746-1746.5 (West 2009) (Act), prohibits the sale or rental of "violent video games" to minors, and requires their packaging to be labeled "18." The Act covers games "in which the range of options available to a player includes killing, maiming, dismembering, or sexually assaulting an image of a human being, if those acts are depicted" in a manner that "[a] reasonable person, considering the game as a whole, would find appeals to a deviant or morbid interest of minors," that is "patently offensive to prevailing standards in the community as to what is suitable for minors," and that "causes the game, as a whole, to lack serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value for minors." §1746(d)(1)(A). Violation of the Act is punishable by a civil fine of up to $1,000. §1746.3.     Respondents, representing the video-game and software industries, brought a preenforcement challenge to the Act in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. That court concluded that the Act violated the First Amendment and permanently enjoined its enforcement. Video Software Dealers Assn. v. Schwarzenegger, No. C-05-04188 RMW (2007), App. to Pet. for Cert. 39a. The Court of Appeals affirmed, Video Software Dealers Assn. v. Schwarzenegger, 556 F. 3d 950 (CA9 2009), and we granted certiorari, 559 U. S. ____ (2010).II     California correctly acknowledges that video games qualify for First Amendment protection. The Free Speech Clause exists principally to protect discourse on public matters, but we have long recognized that it is difficult to distinguish politics from entertainment, and dangerous to try. "Everyone is familiar with instances of propaganda through fiction. What is one man's amusement, teaches another's doctrine." Winters v. New York, 333 U. S. 507, 510 (1948). Like the protected books, plays, and movies that preceded them, video games communicate ideas--and even social messages--through many familiar literary devices (such as characters, dialogue, plot, and music) and through features distinctive to the medium (such as the player's interaction with the virtual world). That suffices to confer First Amendment protection. Under our Constitution, "esthetic and moral judgments about art and literature ... are for the individual to make, not for the Government to decree, even with the mandate or approval of a majority." United States v. Playboy Entertainment Group, Inc., 529 U. S. 803, 818 (2000). And whatever the challenges of applying the Constitution to ever-advancing technology, "the basic principles of freedom of speech and the press, like the First Amendment's command, do not vary" when a new and different medium for communication appears. Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson, 343 U. S. 495, 503 (1952).     The most basic of those principles is this: "[A]s a general matter, ... government has no power to restrict expression because of its message, its ideas, its subject matter, or its content." Ashcroft v. American Civil Liberties Union, 535 U. S. 564, 573 (2002) (internal quotation marks omitted). There are of course exceptions. " 'From 1791 to the present,' ... the First Amendment has 'permitted restrictions upon the content of speech in a few limited areas,' and has never 'include[d] a freedom to disregard these traditional limitations.' " United States v. Stevens, 559 U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (slip op., at 5) (quoting R. A. V. v. St. Paul, 505 U. S. 377, 382-383 (1992)). These limited areas--such as obscenity, Roth v. United States, 354 U. S. 476, 483 (1957), incitement, Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 U. S. 444, 447-449 (1969) (per curiam), and fighting words, Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568, 572 (1942)--represent "well-defined and narrowly limited classes of speech, the prevention and punishment of which have never been thought to raise any Constitutional problem," id., at 571-572.     Last Term, in Stevens, we held that new categories of unprotected speech may not be added to the list by a legislature that concludes certain speech is too harmful to be tolerated. Stevens concerned a federal statute purporting to criminalize the creation, sale, or possession of certain depictions of animal cruelty. See 18 U. S. C. §48 (amended 2010). The statute covered depictions "in which a living animal is intentionally maimed, mutilated, tortured, wounded, or killed" if that harm to the animal was illegal where the "the creation, sale, or possession t[ook] place," §48(c)(1). A saving clause largely borrowed from our obscenity jurisprudence, see Miller v. California, 413 U. S. 15, 24 (1973), exempted depictions with "serious religious, political, scientific, educational, journalistic, historical, or artistic value," §48(b). We held that statute to be an impermissible content-based restriction on speech. There was no American tradition of forbidding the depiction of animal cruelty--though States have long had laws against committing it.     The Government argued in Stevens that lack of a historical warrant did not matter; that it could create new categories of unprotected speech by applying a "simple balancing test" that weighs the value of a particular category of speech against its social costs and then punishes that category of speech if it fails the test. Stevens, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7). We emphatically rejected that "startling and dangerous" proposition. Ibid. "Maybe there are some categories of speech that have been historically unprotected, but have not yet been specifically identified or discussed as such in our case law." Id., at ___ (slip op., at 9). But without persuasive evidence that a novel restriction on content is part of a long (if heretofore unrecognized) tradition of proscription, a legislature may not revise the "judgment [of] the American people," embodied in the First Amendment, "that the benefits of its restrictions on the Government outweigh the costs." Id., at ___ (slip op., at 7).     That holding controls this case.1 As in Stevens, California has tried to make violent-speech regulation look like obscenity regulation by appending a saving clause required for the latter. That does not suffice. Our cases have been clear that the obscenity exception to the First Amendment does not cover whatever a legislature finds shocking, but only depictions of "sexual conduct," Miller, supra, at 24. See also Cohen v. California, 403 U. S. 15, 20 (1971); Roth, supra, at 487, and n. 20.     Stevens was not the first time we have encountered and rejected a State's attempt to shoehorn speech about violence into obscenity. In Winters, we considered a New York criminal statute "forbid[ding] the massing of stories of bloodshed and lust in such a way as to incite to crime against the person," 333 U. S., at 514. The New York Court of Appeals upheld the provision as a law against obscenity. "[T]here can be no more precise test of written indecency or obscenity," it said, "than the continuing and changeable experience of the community as to what types of books are likely to bring about the corruption of public morals or other analogous injury to the public order. " Id., at 514 (internal quotation marks omitted). That is of course the same expansive view of governmental power to abridge the freedom of speech based on interest-balancing that we rejected in Stevens. Our opinion in Winters, which concluded that the New York statute failed a heightened vagueness standard applicable to restrictions upon speech entitled to First Amendment protection, 333 U. S., at 517-519, made clear that violence is not part of the obscenity that the Constitution permits to be regulated. The speech reached by the statute contained "no indecency or obscenity in any sense heretofore known to the law." Id., at 519.     Because speech about violence is not obscene, it is of no consequence that California's statute mimics the New York statute regulating obscenity-for-minors that we upheld in Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U. S. 629 (1968). That case approved a prohibition on the sale to minors of sexual material that would be obscene from the perspective of a child.2 We held that the legislature could "adjus[t] the definition of obscenity 'to social realities by permitting the appeal of this type of material to be assessed in terms of the sexual interests ...' of ... minors. " Id., at 638 (quoting Mishkin v. New York, 383 U. S. 502, 509 (1966)). And because "obscenity is not protected expression," the New York statute could be sustained so long as the legislature's judgment that the proscribed materials were harmful to children "was not irrational." 390 U. S., at 641.     The California Act is something else entirely. It does not adjust the boundaries of an existing category of unprotected speech to ensure that a definition designed for adults is not uncritically applied to children. California does not argue that it is empowered to prohibit selling offensively violent works to adults--and it is wise not to, since that is but a hair's breadth from the argument rejected in Stevens. Instead, it wishes to create a wholly new category of content-based regulation that is permissible only for speech directed at children.     That is unprecedented and mistaken. "[M]inors are entitled to a significant measure of First Amendment protection, and only in relatively narrow and well-defined circumstances may government bar public dissemination of protected materials to them." Erznoznik v. Jacksonville, 422 U. S. 205, 212-213 (1975) (citation omitted). No doubt a State possesses legitimate power to protect children from harm, Ginsberg, supra, at 640-641; Prince v. Massachusetts, 321 U. S. 158, 165 (1944), but that does not include a free-floating power to restrict the ideas to which children may be exposed. "Speech that is neither obscene as to youths nor subject to some other legitimate proscription cannot be suppressed solely to protect the young from ideas or images that a legislative body thinks unsuitable for them." Erznoznik, supra, at 213-214.3     California's argument would fare better if there were a longstanding tradition in this country of specially restricting children's access to depictions of violence, but there is none. Certainly the books we give children to read--or read to them when they are younger--contain no shortage of gore. Grimm's Fairy Tales, for example, are grim indeed. As her just deserts for trying to poison Snow White, the wicked queen is made to dance in red hot slippers "till she fell dead on the floor, a sad example of envy and jealousy." The Complete Brothers Grimm Fairy Tales 198 (2006 ed.). Cinderella's evil stepsisters have their eyes pecked out by doves. Id., at 95. And Hansel and Gretel (children!) kill their captor by baking her in an oven. Id., at 54.     High-school reading lists are full of similar fare. Homer's Odysseus blinds Polyphemus the Cyclops by grinding out his eye with a heated stake. The Odyssey of Homer, Book IX, p. 125 (S. Butcher & A. Lang transls. 1909) ("Even so did we seize the fiery-pointed brand and whirled it round in his eye, and the blood flowed about the heated bar. And the breath of the flame singed his eyelids and brows all about, as the ball of the eye burnt away, and the roots thereof crackled in the flame"). In the Inferno, Dante and Virgil watch corrupt politicians struggle to stay submerged beneath a lake of boiling pitch, lest they be skewered by devils above the surface. Canto XXI, pp. 187-189 (A. Mandelbaum transl. Bantam Classic ed. 1982). And Golding's Lord of the Flies recounts how a schoolboy called Piggy is savagely murdered by other children while marooned on an island. W. Golding, Lord of the Flies 208-209 (1997 ed.).4     This is not to say that minors' consumption of violent entertainment has never encountered resistance. In the 1800's, dime novels depicting crime and "penny dreadfuls" (named for their price and content) were blamed in some quarters for juvenile delinquency. See Brief for Cato Institute as Amicus Curiae 6-7. When motion pictures came along, they became the villains instead. "The days when the police looked upon dime novels as the most dangerous of textbooks in the school for crime are drawing to a close... . They say that the moving picture machine ... tends even more than did the dime novel to turn the thoughts of the easily influenced to paths which sometimes lead to prison." Moving Pictures as Helps to Crime, N. Y. Times, Feb. 21, 1909, quoted in Brief for Cato Institute, at 8. For a time, our Court did permit broad censorship of movies because of their capacity to be "used for evil," see Mutual Film Corp. v. Industrial Comm'n of Ohio, 236 U. S. 230, 242 (1915), but we eventually reversed course, Joseph Burstyn, Inc., 343 U. S., at 502; see also Erznoznik, supra, at 212-214 (invalidating a drive-in movies restriction designed to protect children). Radio dramas were next, and then came comic books. Brief for Cato Institute, at 10-11. Many in the late 1940's and early 1950's blamed comic books for fostering a "preoccupation with violence and horror" among the young, leading to a rising juvenile crime rate. See Note, Regulation of Comic Books, 68 Harv. L. Rev. 489, 490 (1955). But efforts to convince Congress to restrict comic books failed. Brief for Comic Book Legal Defense Fund as Amicus Curiae 11-15.5 And, of course, after comic books came television and music lyrics.     California claims that video games present special problems because they are "interactive," in that the player participates in the violent action on screen and determines its outcome. The latter feature is nothing new: Since at least the publication of The Adventures of You: Sugarcane Island in 1969, young readers of choose-your-own-adventure stories have been able to make decisions that determine the plot by following instructions about which page to turn to. Cf. Interactive Digital Software Assn. v. St. Louis County, 329 F. 3d 954, 957-958 (CA8 2003). As for the argument that video games enable participation in the violent action, that seems to us more a matter of degree than of kind. As Judge Posner has observed, all literature is interactive. "[T]he better it is, the more interactive. Literature when it is successful draws the reader into the story, makes him identify with the characters, invites him to judge them and quarrel with them, to experience their joys and sufferings as the reader's own." American Amusement Machine Assn. v. Kendrick, 244 F. 3d 572, 577 (CA7 2001) (striking down a similar restriction on violent video games).     Justice Alito has done considerable independent re-search to identify, see post, at 14-15, nn. 13-18, video games in which "the violence is astounding," post, at 14. "Victims are dismembered, decapitated, disemboweled, set on fire, and chopped into little pieces. . . . Blood gushes, splatters, and pools." Ibid. Justice Alito recounts all these disgusting video games in order to disgust us--but disgust is not a valid basis for restricting expression. And the same is true of Justice Alito's description, post, at 14-15, of those video games he has discovered that have a racial or ethnic motive for their violence--" 'ethnic cleansing' [of] . . . African Americans, Latinos, or Jews." To what end does he relate this? Does it somehow increase the "aggressiveness" that California wishes to suppress? Who knows? But it does arouse the reader's ire, and the reader's desire to put an end to this horrible message. Thus, ironically, Justice Alito's argument highlights the precise danger posed by the California Act: that the ideas expressed by speech--whether it be violence, or gore, or racism--and not its objective effects, may be the real reason for governmental proscription.III     Because the Act imposes a restriction on the content of protected speech, it is invalid unless California can demonstrate that it passes strict scrutiny--that is, unless it is justified by a compelling government interest and is narrowly drawn to serve that interest. R. A. V., 505 U. S., at 395. The State must specifically identify an "actual problem" in need of solving, Playboy, 529 U. S., at 822-823, and the curtailment of free speech must be actually necessary to the solution, see R. A. V., supra, at 395. That is a demanding standard. "It is rare that a regulation restricting speech because of its content will ever be permissible." Playboy, supra, at 818.     California cannot meet that standard. At the outset, it acknowledges that it cannot show a direct causal link between violent video games and harm to minors. Rather, relying upon our decision in Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, 512 U. S. 622 (1994), the State claims that it need not produce such proof because the legislature can make a predictive judgment that such a link exists, based on competing psychological studies. But reliance on Turner Broadcasting is misplaced. That decision applied intermediate scrutiny to a content-neutral regulation. Id., at 661-662. California's burden is much higher, and because it bears the risk of uncertainty, see Playboy, supra, at 816-817, ambiguous proof will not suffice.     The State's evidence is not compelling. California relies primarily on the research of Dr. Craig Anderson and a few other research psychologists whose studies purport to show a connection between exposure to violent video games and harmful effects on children. These studies have been rejected by every court to consider them,6 and with good reason: They do not prove that violent video games cause minors to act aggressively (which would at least be a beginning). Instead, "[n]early all of the research is based on correlation, not evidence of causation, and most of the studies suffer from significant, admitted flaws in methodology." Video Software Dealers Assn. 556 F. 3d, at 964. They show at best some correlation between exposure to violent entertainment and minuscule real-world effects, such as children's feeling more aggressive or making louder noises in the few minutes after playing a violent game than after playing a nonviolent game.7     Even taking for granted Dr. Anderson's conclusions that violent video games produce some effect on children's feelings of aggression, those effects are both small and indistinguishable from effects produced by other media. In his testimony in a similar lawsuit, Dr. Anderson admitted that the "effect sizes" of children's exposure to violent video games are "about the same" as that produced by their exposure to violence on television. App. 1263. And he admits that the same effects have been found when children watch cartoons starring Bugs Bunny or the Road Runner, id., at 1304, or when they play video games like Sonic the Hedgehog that are rated "E" (appropriate for all ages), id., at 1270, or even when they "vie[w] a picture of a gun," id., at 1315-1316.8     Of course, California has (wisely) declined to restrict Saturday morning cartoons, the sale of games rated for young children, or the distribution of pictures of guns. The consequence is that its regulation is wildly underinclusive when judged against its asserted justification, which in our view is alone enough to defeat it. Underinclusiveness raises serious doubts about whether the government is in fact pursuing the interest it invokes, rather than disfavoring a particular speaker or viewpoint. See City of Ladue v. Gilleo, 512 U. S. 43, 51 (1994); Florida Star v. B. J. F., 491 U. S. 524, 540 (1989). Here, California has singled out the purveyors of video games for disfavored treatment--at least when compared to booksellers, cartoonists, and movie producers--and has given no persuasive reason why.     The Act is also seriously underinclusive in another respect--and a respect that renders irrelevant the contentions of the concurrence and the dissents that video games are qualitatively different from other portrayals of violence. The California Legislature is perfectly willing to leave this dangerous, mind-altering material in the hands of children so long as one parent (or even an aunt or uncle) says it's OK. And there are not even any requirements as to how this parental or avuncular relationship is to be verified; apparently the child's or putative parent's, aunt's, or uncle's say-so suffices. That is not how one addresses a serious social problem.     California claims that the Act is justified in aid of parental authority: By requiring that the purchase of violent video games can be made only by adults, the Act ensures that parents can decide what games are appropriate. At the outset, we note our doubts that punishing third parties for conveying protected speech to children just in case their parents disapprove of that speech is a proper governmental means of aiding parental authority. Accepting that position would largely vitiate the rule that "only in relatively narrow and well-defined circumstances may government bar public dissemination of protected materials to [minors]." Erznoznik, 422 U. S., at 212-213.     But leaving that aside, California cannot show that the Act's restrictions meet a substantial need of parents who wish to restrict their children's access to violent video games but cannot do so. The video-game industry has in place a voluntary rating system designed to inform consumers about the content of games. The system, implemented by the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB), assigns age-specific ratings to each video game submitted: EC (Early Childhood); E (Everyone); E10+ (Everyone 10 and older); T (Teens); M (17 and older); and AO (Adults Only--18 and older). App. 86. The Video Software Dealers Association encourages retailers to prominently display information about the ESRB system in their stores; to refrain from renting or selling adults-only games to minors; and to rent or sell "M" rated games to minors only with parental consent. Id., at 47. In 2009, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) found that, as a result of this system, "the video game industry outpaces the movie and music industries" in "(1) restricting target-marketing of mature-rated products to children; (2) clearly and prominently disclosing rating information; and (3) re-stricting children's access to mature-rated products at retail." FTC, Report to Congress, Marketing Violent Entertainment to Children 30 (Dec. 2009), online at http:// www.ftc.gov / os/ 2009 / 12/ P994511violententertainment.pdf (as visited June 24, 2011, and available in Clerk of Court's case file) (FTC Report). This system does much to ensure that minors cannot purchase seriously violent games on their own, and that parents who care about the matter can readily evaluate the games their children bring home. Filling the remaining modest gap in concerned-parents' control can hardly be a compelling state interest.9     And finally, the Act's purported aid to parental authority is vastly overinclusive. Not all of the children who are forbidden to purchase violent video games on their own have parents who care whether they purchase violent video games. While some of the legislation's effect may indeed be in support of what some parents of the restricted children actually want, its entire effect is only in support of what the State thinks parents ought to want. This is not the narrow tailoring to "assisting parents" that restriction of First Amendment rights requires.*??*??*     California's effort to regulate violent video games is the latest episode in a long series of failed attempts to censor violent entertainment for minors. While we have pointed out above that some of the evidence brought forward to support the harmfulness of video games is unpersuasive, we do not mean to demean or disparage the concerns that underlie the attempt to regulate them--concerns that may and doubtless do prompt a good deal of parental oversight. We have no business passing judgment on the view of the California Legislature that violent video games (or, for that matter, any other forms of speech) corrupt the young or harm their moral development. Our task is only to say whether or not such works constitute a "well-defined and narrowly limited clas[s] of speech, the prevention and punishment of which have never been thought to raise any Constitutional problem," Chaplinsky, 315 U. S., at 571-572 (the answer plainly is no); and if not, whether the regulation of such works is justified by that high degree of necessity we have described as a compelling state interest (it is not). Even where the protection of children is the object, the constitutional limits on governmental action apply.     California's legislation straddles the fence between (1) addressing a serious social problem and (2) helping concerned parents control their children. Both ends are legitimate, but when they affect First Amendment rights they must be pursued by means that are neither seriously underinclusive nor seriously overinclusive. See Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah, 508 U. S. 520, 546 (1993). As a means of protecting children from portrayals of violence, the legislation is seriously underinclusive, not only because it excludes portrayals other than video games, but also because it permits a parental or avuncular veto. And as a means of assisting concerned parents it is seriously overinclusive because it abridges the First Amendment rights of young people whose parents (and aunts and uncles) think violent video games are a harmless pastime. And the overbreadth in achieving one goal is not cured by the underbreadth in achieving the other. Legislation such as this, which is neither fish nor fowl, cannot survive strict scrutiny.     We affirm the judgment below.It is so ordered.EDMUND G. BROWN, Jr., GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA, et al., PETITIONERS v. ENTERTAINMENT MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[June 27, 2011]     Justice Alito, with whom The Chief Justice joins, concurring in the judgment.     The California statute that is before us in this case represents a pioneering effort to address what the state legislature and others regard as a potentially serious social problem: the effect of exceptionally violent video games on impressionable minors, who often spend countless hours immersed in the alternative worlds that these games create. Although the California statute is well intentioned, its terms are not framed with the precision that the Constitution demands, and I therefore agree with the Court that this particular law cannot be sustained.     I disagree, however, with the approach taken in the Court's opinion. In considering the application of unchanging constitutional principles to new and rapidly evolving technology, this Court should proceed with caution. We should make every effort to understand the new technology. We should take into account the possibility that developing technology may have important societal implications that will become apparent only with time. We should not jump to the conclusion that new technology is fundamentally the same as some older thing with which we are familiar. And we should not hastily dismiss the judgment of legislators, who may be in a better position than we are to assess the implications of new technology. The opinion of the Court exhibits none of this caution.     In the view of the Court, all those concerned about the effects of violent video games--federal and state legislators, educators, social scientists, and parents--are unduly fearful, for violent video games really present no serious problem. See ante, at 10-13, 15-16. Spending hour upon hour controlling the actions of a character who guns down scores of innocent victims is not different in "kind" from reading a description of violence in a work of literature. See ante, at 10-11.     The Court is sure of this; I am not. There are reasons to suspect that the experience of playing violent video games just might be very different from reading a book, listening to the radio, or watching a movie or a television show.I     Respondents in this case, representing the video-game industry, ask us to strike down the California law on two grounds: The broad ground adopted by the Court and the narrower ground that the law's definition of "violent video game," see Cal. Civ. Code Ann. §1746(d)(1)(A) (West 2009), is impermissibly vague. See Brief for Respondents 23-61. Because I agree with the latter argument, I see no need to reach the broader First Amendment issues addressed by the Court.1A     Due process requires that laws give people of ordinary intelligence fair notice of what is prohibited. Grayned v. City of Rockford, 408 U. S. 104, 108 (1972). The lack of such notice in a law that regulates expression "raises special First Amendment concerns because of its obvious chilling effect on free speech." Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union, 521 U. S. 844, 871-872 (1997). Vague laws force potential speakers to " 'steer far wider of the unlawful zone' ... than if the boundaries of the forbidden areas were clearly marked." Baggett v. Bullitt, 377 U. S. 360, 372 (1964) (quoting Speiser v. Randall, 357 U. S. 513, 526 (1958)). While "perfect clarity and precise guidance have never been required even of regulations that restrict expressive activity," Ward v. Rock Against Racism, 491 U. S. 781, 794 (1989), "government may regulate in the area" of First Amendment freedoms "only with narrow specificity," NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415, 433 (1963); see also Hoffman Estates v. Flipside, Hoffman Estates, Inc., 455 U. S. 489, 499 (1982). These principles apply to laws that regulate expression for the purpose of protecting children. See Interstate Circuit, Inc. v. Dallas, 390 U. S. 676, 689 (1968).     Here, the California law does not define "violent video games" with the "narrow specificity" that the Constitution demands. In an effort to avoid First Amendment problems, the California Legislature modeled its violent video game statute on the New York law that this Court upheld in Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U. S. 629 (1968)--a law that prohibited the sale of certain sexually related materials to minors, see id., at 631-633. But the California Legislature departed from the Ginsberg model in an important respect, and the legislature overlooked important differences between the materials falling within the scope of the two statutes.B     The law at issue in Ginsberg prohibited the sale to minors of materials that were deemed "harmful to minors," and the law defined "harmful to minors" simply by adding the words "for minors" to each element of the definition of obscenity set out in what were then the Court's leading obscenity decisions, see Roth v. United States, 354 U. S. 476 (1957), and Book Named "John Cleland's Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure" v. Attorney General of Mass., 383 U. S. 413 (1966).     Seeking to bring its violent video game law within the protection of Ginsberg, the California Legislature began with the obscenity test adopted in Miller v. California, 413 U. S. 15 (1973), a decision that revised the obscenity tests previously set out in Roth and Memoirs. The legislature then made certain modifications to accommodate the aim of the violent video game law.     Under Miller, an obscenity statute must contain a thresh-old limitation that restricts the statute's scope to specifically described "hard core" materials. See 413 U. S., at 23-25, 27. Materials that fall within this "hard core" category may be deemed to be obscene if three additional requirements are met:(1) an "average person, applying contemporary community standards [must] find ... the work, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest";(2) "the work [must] depic[t] or describ[e], in a patently offensive way, sexual conduct specifically defined by the applicable state law; and"(3) "the work, taken as a whole, [must] lac[k] serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value." Id., at 24 (internal quotation marks omitted).     Adapting these standards, the California law imposes the following threshold limitation: "[T]he range of options available to a player [must] includ[e] killing, maiming, dismembering, or sexually assaulting an image of a human being." §1746(d)(1). Any video game that meets this threshold test is subject to the law's restrictions if it also satisfies three further requirements:     "(i) A reasonable person, considering the game as a whole, would find [the game] appeals to a deviant or morbid interest of minors.     "(ii) It is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the community as to what is suitable for minors.     "(iii) It causes the game, as a whole, to lack serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value for minors." §1746(d)(1)(A).2C     The first important difference between the Ginsberg law and the California violent video game statute concerns their respective threshold requirements. As noted, the Ginsberg law built upon the test for adult obscenity, and the current adult obscenity test, which was set out in Miller, requires an obscenity statute to contain a threshold limitation that restricts the statute's coverage to specifically defined "hard core" depictions. See 413 U. S., at 23-25, 27. The Miller Court gave as an example a statute that applies to only "[p]atently offensive representations or descriptions of ultimate sexual acts," "masturbation, excretory functions, and lewd exhibition of the genitals." Id., at 25. The Miller Court clearly viewed this threshold limitation as serving a vital notice function. "We are satisfied," the Court wrote, "that these specific prerequisites will provide fair notice to a dealer in such materials that his public and commercial activities may bring prosecution." Id., at 27; see also Reno, supra, at 873 (observing that Miller's threshold limitation "reduces the vagueness inherent in the open-ended term 'patently offensive' ").3     By contrast, the threshold requirement of the California law does not perform the narrowing function served by the limitation in Miller. At least when Miller was decided, depictions of "hard core" sexual conduct were not a common feature of mainstream entertainment. But nothing similar can be said about much of the conduct covered by the California law. It provides that a video game cannot qualify as "violent" unless "the range of options available to a player includes killing, maiming, dismembering, or sexually assaulting an image of a human being." §1746(d)(1).     For better or worse, our society has long regarded many depictions of killing and maiming4 as suitable features of popular entertainment, including entertainment that is widely available to minors. The California law's threshold requirement would more closely resemble the limitation in Miller if it targeted a narrower class of graphic depictions.     Because of this feature of the California law's threshold test, the work of providing fair notice is left in large part to the three requirements that follow, but those elements are also not up to the task. In drafting the violent video game law, the California Legislature could have made its own judgment regarding the kind and degree of violence that is acceptable in games played by minors (or by minors in particular age groups). Instead, the legislature relied on undefined societal or community standards.     One of the three elements at issue here refers expressly to "prevailing standards in the community as to what is suitable for minors." §1746(d)(1)(A)(ii). Another element points in the same direction, asking whether "[a] reasonable person, considering [a] game as a whole," would find that it "appeals to a deviant or morbid interest of minors." §1746(d)(1)(A)(i) (emphasis added).     The terms "deviant" and "morbid" are not defined in the statute, and California offers no reason to think that its courts would give the terms anything other than their ordinary meaning. See Reply Brief for Petitioners 5 (arguing that "[a] reasonable person can make this judgment through ... a common understanding and definition of the applicable terms"). I therefore assume that "deviant" and "morbid" carry the meaning that they convey in ordinary speech. The adjective "deviant" ordinarily means "deviating ... from some accepted norm," and the term "morbid" means "of, relating to, or characteristic of disease." Webster's 618, 1469. A "deviant or morbid interest" in violence, therefore, appears to be an interest that deviates from what is regarded--presumably in accordance with some generally accepted standard--as normal and healthy. Thus, the application of the California law is heavily dependent on the identification of generally accepted standards regarding the suitability of violent entertainment for minors.     The California Legislature seems to have assumed that these standards are sufficiently well known so that a person of ordinary intelligence would have fair notice as to whether the kind and degree of violence in a particular game is enough to qualify the game as "violent." And because the Miller test looks to community standards, the legislature may have thought that the use of undefined community standards in the violent video game law would not present vagueness problems.     There is a critical difference, however, between obscenity laws and laws regulating violence in entertainment. By the time of this Court's landmark obscenity cases in the 1960's, obscenity had long been prohibited, see Roth, 354 U. S., at 484-485, and this experience had helped to shape certain generally accepted norms concerning expression related to sex.     There is no similar history regarding expression related to violence. As the Court notes, classic literature contains descriptions of great violence, and even children's stories sometimes depict very violent scenes. See ante, at 8-9.     Although our society does not generally regard all depictions of violence as suitable for children or adolescents, the prevalence of violent depictions in children's literature and entertainment creates numerous opportunities for reasonable people to disagree about which depictions may excite "deviant" or "morbid" impulses. See Edwards & Berman, Regulating Violence on Television, 89 Nw. U. L. Rev. 1487, 1523 (1995) (observing that the Miller test would be difficult to apply to violent expression because "there is nothing even approaching a consensus on low-value violence").     Finally, the difficulty of ascertaining the community standards incorporated into the California law is compounded by the legislature's decision to lump all minors together. The California law draws no distinction between young children and adolescents who are nearing the age of majority.     In response to a question at oral argument, the attorney defending the constitutionality of the California law said that the State would accept a narrowing construction of the law under which the law's references to "minors" would be interpreted to refer to the oldest minors--that is, those just short of 18. Tr. of Oral Arg. 11-12. However, "it is not within our power to construe and narrow state laws." Grayned, 408 U. S., at 110. We can only " 'extrapolate [their] allowable meaning' " from the statutory text and authoritative interpretations of similar laws by courts of the State. Ibid. (quoting Garner v. Louisiana, 368 U. S. 157, 174 (1961) (Frankfurter, J., concurring in judgment)).     In this case, California has not provided any evidence that the California Legislature intended the law to be limited in this way, or cited any decisions from its courts that would support an "oldest minors" construction.5     For these reasons, I conclude that the California violent video game law fails to provide the fair notice that the Constitution requires. And I would go no further. I would not express any view on whether a properly drawn statute would or would not survive First Amendment scrutiny. We should address that question only if and when it is necessary to do so.II     Having outlined how I would decide this case, I will now briefly elaborate on my reasons for questioning the wisdom of the Court's approach. Some of these reasons are touched upon by the dissents, and while I am not prepared at this time to go as far as either Justice Thomas or Justice Breyer, they raise valid concerns.A     The Court is wrong in saying that the holding in United States v. Stevens, 559 U. S. ___ (2010), "controls this case." Ante, at 4. First, the statute in Stevens differed sharply from the statute at issue here. Stevens struck down a law that broadly prohibited any person from creating, selling, or possessing depictions of animal cruelty for commercial gain. The California law involved here, by contrast, is limited to the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. The California law imposes no restriction on the creation of violent video games, or on the possession of such games by anyone, whether above or below the age of 18. The California law does not regulate the sale or rental of violent games by adults. And the California law does not prevent parents and certain other close relatives from buying or renting violent games for their children or other young relatives if they see fit.     Second, Stevens does not support the proposition that a law like the one at issue must satisfy strict scrutiny. The portion of Stevens on which the Court relies rejected the Government's contention that depictions of animal cruelty were categorically outside the range of any First Amendment protection. 559 U. S., at __ (slip op., at 5). Going well beyond Stevens, the Court now holds that any law that attempts to prevent minors from purchasing violent video games must satisfy strict scrutiny instead of the more lenient standard applied in Ginsberg, 390 U. S. 629, our most closely related precedent. As a result of today's decision, a State may prohibit the sale to minors of what Ginsberg described as "girlie magazines," but a State must surmount a formidable (and perhaps insurmountable) obstacle if it wishes to prevent children from purchasing the most violent and depraved video games imaginable.     Third, Stevens expressly left open the possibility that a more narrowly drawn statute targeting depictions of animal cruelty might be compatible with the First Amendment. See 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 19). In this case, the Court's sweeping opinion will likely be read by many, both inside and outside the video-game industry, as suggesting that no regulation of minors' access to violent video games is allowed--at least without supporting evidence that may not be realistically obtainable given the nature of the phenomenon in question.B     The Court's opinion distorts the effect of the California law. I certainly agree with the Court that the government has no "free-floating power to restrict the ideas to which children may be exposed," ante, at 7, but the California law does not exercise such a power. If parents want their child to have a violent video game, the California law does not interfere with that parental prerogative. Instead, the California law reinforces parental decisionmaking in exactly the same way as the New York statute upheld in Ginsberg. Under both laws, minors are prevented from purchasing certain materials; and under both laws, parents are free to supply their children with these items if that is their wish.     Citing the video-game industry's voluntary rating system, the Court argues that the California law does not "meet a substantial need of parents who wish to restrict their children's access to violent video games but cannot do so." Ante, at 15. The Court does not mention the fact that the industry adopted this system in response to the threat of federal regulation, Brief for Activision Blizzard, Inc., as Amicus Curiae 7-10, a threat that the Court's opinion may now be seen as largely eliminating. Nor does the Court acknowledge that compliance with this system at the time of the enactment of the California law left much to be desired6--or that future enforcement may decline if the video-game industry perceives that any threat of government regulation has vanished. Nor does the Court note, as Justice Breyer points out, see post, at 11 (dissenting opinion), that many parents today are simply not able to monitor their children's use of computers and gaming devices.C     Finally, the Court is far too quick to dismiss the possibility that the experience of playing video games (and the effects on minors of playing violent video games) may be very different from anything that we have seen before. Any assessment of the experience of playing video games must take into account certain characteristics of the video games that are now on the market and those that are likely to be available in the near future.     Today's most advanced video games create realistic alternative worlds in which millions of players immerse themselves for hours on end. These games feature visual imagery and sounds that are strikingly realistic, and in the near future video-game graphics may be virtually indistinguishable from actual video footage.7 Many of the games already on the market can produce high definition images,8 and it is predicted that it will not be long before video-game images will be seen in three dimensions.9 It is also forecast that video games will soon provide sensory feedback.10 By wearing a special vest or other device, a player will be able to experience physical sensations supposedly felt by a character on the screen.11 Some amici who support respondents foresee the day when " 'virtual-reality shoot-'em-ups' " will allow children to " 'actually feel the splatting blood from the blown-off head' " of a victim. Brief for Reporters Comm. for Freedom of the Press et al. as Amici Curiae 29 (quoting H. Schechter, Savage Pastimes 18 (2005)).     Persons who play video games also have an unprecedented ability to participate in the events that take place in the virtual worlds that these games create. Players can create their own video-game characters and can use photos to produce characters that closely resemble actual people. A person playing a sophisticated game can make a multitude of choices and can thereby alter the course of the action in the game. In addition, the means by which players control the action in video games now bear a closer relationship to the means by which people control action in the real world. While the action in older games was often directed with buttons or a joystick, players dictate the action in newer games by engaging in the same motions that they desire a character in the game to perform.12 For example, a player who wants a video-game character to swing a baseball bat--either to hit a ball or smash a skull--could bring that about by simulating the motion of actually swinging a bat.     These present-day and emerging characteristics of video games must be considered together with characteristics of the violent games that have already been marketed.     In some of these games, the violence is astounding.13 Victims by the dozens are killed with every imaginable implement, including machine guns, shotguns, clubs, hammers, axes, swords, and chainsaws. Victims are dismembered, decapitated, disemboweled, set on fire, and chopped into little pieces. They cry out in agony and beg for mercy. Blood gushes, splatters, and pools. Severed body parts and gobs of human remains are graphically shown. In some games, points are awarded based, not only on the number of victims killed, but on the killing technique employed.     It also appears that there is no antisocial theme too base for some in the video-game industry to exploit. There are games in which a player can take on the identity and reenact the killings carried out by the perpetrators of the murders at Columbine High School and Virginia Tech.14 The objective of one game is to rape a mother and her daughters;15 in another, the goal is to rape Native American women.16 There is a game in which players engage in "ethnic cleansing" and can choose to gun down African-Americans, Latinos, or Jews.17 In still another game, players attempt to fire a rifle shot into the head of President Kennedy as his motorcade passes by the Texas School Book Depository.18     If the technological characteristics of the sophisticated games that are likely to be available in the near future are combined with the characteristics of the most violent games already marketed, the result will be games that allow troubled teens to experience in an extraordinarily personal and vivid way what it would be like to carry out unspeakable acts of violence.     The Court is untroubled by this possibility. According to the Court, the "interactive" nature of video games is "nothing new" because "all literature is interactive." Ante, at 10-11. Disagreeing with this assessment, the International Game Developers Association (IGDA)--a group that presumably understands the nature of video games and that supports respondents--tells us that video games are "far more concretely interactive." Brief for IGDA et al. as Amici Curiae 3. And on this point, the game developers are surely correct.     It is certainly true, as the Court notes, that " '[l]it-erature, when it is successful draws the reader into the story, makes him identify with the characters, invites him to judge them and quarrel with them, to experience their joys and sufferings as the reader's own.' " Ante, at 11 (quoting American Amusement Machine Assn. v. Kendrick, 244 F. 3d 572, 577 (CA7 2001)). But only an extraordinarily imaginative reader who reads a description of a killing in a literary work will experience that event as vividly as he might if he played the role of the killer in a video game. To take an example, think of a person who reads the passage in Crime and Punishment in which Raskolnikov kills the old pawn broker with an axe. See F. Dostoyevsky, Crime and Punishment 78 (Modern Library ed. 1950). Compare that reader with a video-game player who creates an avatar that bears his own image; who sees a realistic image of the victim and the scene of the killing in high definition and in three dimensions; who is forced to decide whether or not to kill the victim and decides to do so; who then pretends to grasp an axe, to raise it above the head of the victim, and then to bring it down; who hears the thud of the axe hitting her head and her cry of pain; who sees her split skull and feels the sensation of blood on his face and hands. For most people, the two experiences will not be the same.19     When all of the characteristics of video games are taken into account, there is certainly a reasonable basis for thinking that the experience of playing a video game may be quite different from the experience of reading a book, listening to a radio broadcast, or viewing a movie. And if this is so, then for at least some minors, the effects of playing violent video games may also be quite different. The Court acts prematurely in dismissing this possibility out of hand.*??*??*     For all these reasons, I would hold only that the particular law at issue here fails to provide the clear notice that the Constitution requires. I would not squelch legislative efforts to deal with what is perceived by some to be a significant and developing social problem. If differently framed statutes are enacted by the States or by the Federal Government, we can consider the constitutionality of those laws when cases challenging them are presented to us.EDMUND G. BROWN, Jr., GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA, et al., PETITIONERS v. ENTERTAINMENT MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[June 27, 2011]     Justice Thomas, dissenting.     The Court's decision today does not comport with the original public understanding of the First Amendment. The majority strikes down, as facially unconstitutional, a state law that prohibits the direct sale or rental of certain video games to minors because the law "abridg[es] the freedom of speech." U. S. Const., Amdt. 1. But I do not think the First Amendment stretches that far. The practices and beliefs of the founding generation establish that "the freedom of speech," as originally understood, does not include a right to speak to minors (or a right of minors to access speech) without going through the minors' parents or guardians. I would hold that the law at issue is not facially unconstitutional under the First Amendment, and reverse and remand for further proceedings.1I     When interpreting a constitutional provision, "the goal is to discern the most likely public understanding of [that] provision at the time it was adopted." McDonald v. Chicago, 561 U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (slip op., at 25) (Thomas, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment). Because the Constitution is a written instrument, "its meaning does not alter." McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Comm'n, 514 U. S. 334, 359 (1995) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (internal quotation marks omitted). "That which it meant when adopted, it means now." Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).     As originally understood, the First Amendment's protection against laws "abridging the freedom of speech" did not extend to all speech. "There are certain well-defined and narrowly limited classes of speech, the prevention and punishment of which have never been thought to raise any Constitutional problem." Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568, 571-572 (1942); see also United States v. Stevens, 559 U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (slip op., at 5-6). Laws regulating such speech do not "abridg[e] the freedom of speech" because such speech is understood to fall outside "the freedom of speech." See Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition, 535 U. S. 234, 245-246 (2002).     In my view, the "practices and beliefs held by the Founders" reveal another category of excluded speech: speech to minor children bypassing their parents. McIntyre, supra, at 360. The historical evidence shows that the founding generation believed parents had absolute authority over their minor children and expected parents to use that authority to direct the proper development of their children. It would be absurd to suggest that such a society understood "the freedom of speech" to include a right to speak to minors (or a corresponding right of minors to access speech) without going through the minors' parents. Cf. Brief for Common Sense Media as Amicus Curiae 12-15. The founding generation would not have considered it an abridgment of "the freedom of speech" to support parental authority by restricting speech that bypasses minors' parents.A     Attitudes toward children were in a state of transition around the time that the States ratified the Bill of Rights. A complete understanding of the founding generation's views on children and the parent-child relationship must therefore begin roughly a century earlier, in colonial New England.     In the Puritan tradition common in the New England Colonies, fathers ruled families with absolute authority. "The patriarchal family was the basic building block of Puritan society." S. Mintz, Huck's Raft 13 (2004) (hereinafter Mintz); see also R. MacDonald, Literature for Children in England and America from 1646 to 1774, p. 7 (1982) (hereinafter MacDonald). The Puritans rejected many customs, such as godparenthood, that they considered inconsistent with the patriarchal structure. Mintz 13.     Part of the father's absolute power was the right and duty "to fill his children's minds with knowledge and ... make them apply their knowledge in right action." E. Morgan, The Puritan Family 97 (rev. ed. 1966) (herein-after Morgan). Puritans thought children were "innately sinful and that parents' primary task was to suppress their children's natural depravity." S. Mintz & S. Kellogg, Domestic Revolutions 2 (1988) (hereinafter Mintz & Kellogg); see also B. Wadsworth, The Well-Ordered Family 55 (1712) ("Children should not be left to themselves ... to do as they please; ... not being fit to govern themselves"); C. Mather, A Family Well-Ordered 38 (1699). Accordingly, parents were not to let their children read "vain Books, profane Ballads, and filthy Songs" or "fond and amorous Romances, ... fabulous Histories of Giants, the bombast Achievements of Knight Errantry, and the like." The History of Genesis, pp. vi-vii (3d ed. corrected 1708).     This conception of parental authority was reflected in laws at that time. In the Massachusetts Colony, for example, it was unlawful for tavern keepers (or anyone else) to entertain children without their parents' consent. 2 Records and Files of the Quarterly Courts of Essex County, Massachusetts, p. 180 (1912); 4 id., at 237, 275 (1914); 5 id., at 143 (1916); see also Morgan 146. And a "stubborn or rebellious son" of 16 years or more committed a capital offense if he disobeyed "the voice of his Father, or the voice of his Mother." The Laws and Liberties of Massachusetts 6 (1648) (reprint M. Farrand ed. 1929); see also J. Kamensky, Governing the Tongue 102, n. 14 (1997) (citing similar laws in the Connecticut, New Haven, Plymouth, and New Hampshire Colonies in the late 1600's).B     In the decades leading up to and following the Revolution, attitudes towards children changed. See, e.g., J. Reinier, From Virtue to Character: American Childhood, 1775-1850, p. 1 (1996) (hereinafter Reinier). Children came to be seen less as innately sinful and more as blank slates requiring careful and deliberate development. But the same overarching principles remained. Parents continued to have both the right and duty to ensure the proper development of their children. They exercised significant authority over their children, including control over the books that children read. And laws at the time continued to reflect strong support for parental authority and the sense that children were not fit to govern themselves.1     The works of John Locke and Jean-Jacques Rousseau were a driving force behind the changed understanding of children and childhood. See Reinier 2-5; H. Brewer, By Birth or Consent 97 (2005) (hereinafter Brewer); K. Calvert, Children in the House 59-60 (1992) (hereinafter Calvert). Locke taught that children's minds were blank slates and that parents therefore had to be careful and deliberate about what their children were told and observed. Parents had only themselves to blame if, "by hu-mouring and cockering" their children, they "poison'd the fountain" and later "taste[d] the bitter waters." Some Thoughts Concerning Education (1692), in 37 English Philosophers of the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries 27-28 (C. Eliot ed. 1910). All vices, he explained, were sowed by parents and "those about children." Id., at 29. Significantly, Locke did not suggest circumscribing parental authority but rather articulated a new basis for it. Rousseau disagreed with Locke in important respects, but his philosophy was similarly premised on parental control over a child's development. Although Rousseau advocated that children should be allowed to develop naturally, he instructed that the environment be directed by "a tutor who is given total control over the child and who removes him from society, from all competing sources of authority and influence." J. Fliegelman, Prodigals and Pilgrims 30 (1982) (hereinafter Fliegelman); see also Reinier 15.     These writings received considerable attention in America. Locke's An Essay Concerning Human Understanding and his Some Thoughts Concerning Education were significantly more popular than his Two Treatises of Government, according to a study of 92 colonial libraries between 1700 and 1776. Lundberg & May, The Enlightened Reader in America, 28 American Quarterly 262, 273 (1976) (hereinafter Lundberg). And Rousseau's Emile, a treatise on education, was more widely advertised and distributed than his political work, The Social Contract. Fliegelman 29; see also Lundberg 285. In general, the most popular books in the Colonies on the eve of the American Revolution were not political discourses but ones concerned with child rearing. See Mintz & Kellogg 45.2     Locke's and Rousseau's writings fostered a new conception of childhood. Children were increasingly viewed as malleable creatures, and childhood came to be seen as an important period of growth, development, and preparation for adulthood. See Mintz & Kellogg 17, 21, 47; M. Grossberg, Governing the Hearth 8 (1985) (hereinafter Grossberg). Noah Webster, called the father of American education, wrote that "[t]he impressions received in early life usually form the characters of individuals." On the Education of Youth in America (1790) (hereinafter Webster), in Essays on Education in the Early Republic 43 (F. Rudolph ed. 1965) (hereinafter Rudolph); cf. Slater, Noah Webster: Founding Father of American Scholarship and Education, in Noah Webster's First Edition of an American Dictionary of the English Language (1967). Elizabeth Smith, sister-in-law to John Adams, similarly wrote: "The Infant Mind, I beleive[,] is a blank, that eassily receives any impression." M. Norton, Liberty's Daughters 101 (1996) (internal quotation marks omitted) (hereinafter Norton); see also S. Doggett, A Discourse on Education (1796) (hereinafter Doggett), in Rudolph 151 ("[I]n early youth, ... every power and capacity is pliable and susceptible of any direction or impression"); J. Abbott, The Mother at Home 2 (1834) (hereinafter Abbott) ("What impressions can be more strong, and more lasting, than those received upon the mind in the freshness and the susceptibility of youth").     Children lacked reason and decisionmaking ability. They "have not Judgment or Will of their own," John Adams noted. Letter to James Sullivan (May 26, 1776), in 4 Papers of John Adams 210 (R. Taylor ed. 1979); see also Vol. 1 1787: Drafting the Constitution, p. 229 (W. Benton ed. 1986) (quoting Gouvernor Morris in James Madison's notes from the Constitutional Convention explaining that children do not vote because they "want prudence" and "have no will of their own"). Children's "utter incapacity" rendered them "almost wholly at the mercy of their Parents or Instructors for a set of habits to regulate their whole conduct through life." J. Burgh, Thoughts on Education 7 (1749) (hereinafter Burgh).     This conception of childhood led to great concern about influences on children. "Youth are ever learning to do what they see others around them doing, and these imitations grow into habits." Doggett, in Rudolph 151; see also B. Rush, A Plan for the Establishment of Public Schools (1786) (hereinafter Rush), in Rudolph 16 ("The vices of young people are generally learned from each other"); Webster, in Rudolph 58 ("[C]hildren, artless and unsuspecting, resign their hearts to any person whose manners are agreeable and whose conduct is respectable"). Books therefore advised parents "not to put children in the way of those whom you dare not trust." L. Child, The Mother's Book 149 (1831) (hereinafter Child); see also S. Coontz, The Social Origins of Private Life 149-150 (1988) (noting that it was "considered dangerous to leave children to the supervision of servants or apprentices").     As a result, it was widely accepted that children needed close monitoring and carefully planned development. See B. Wishy, The Child and the Republic 24-25, 32 (1968) (hereinafter Wishy); Grossberg 8. Managing the young mind was considered "infinitely important." Doggett, in Rudolph 151; see also A. MacLeod, A Moral Tale 72-73 (1975) (hereinafter MacLeod). In an essay on the education of youth in America, Noah Webster described the human mind as "a rich field, which, without constant care, will ever be covered with a luxuriant growth of weeds." Rudolph 54. He advocated sheltering children from "every low-bred, drunken, immoral character" and keeping their minds "untainted till their reasoning faculties have acquired strength and the good principles which may be planted in their minds have taken deep root." Id., at 63; see also Rush, in id., at 16 ("[T]he most useful citizens have been formed from those youth who have never known or felt their own wills till they were one and twenty years of age"); Burgh 7 ("[T]he souls of Youth are more immediately committed to the care of Parents and Instructors than even those of a People are to their Pastor").     The Revolution only amplified these concerns. The Re-public would require virtuous citizens, which necessitated proper training from childhood. See Mintz 54, 71; MacLeod 40; Saxton, French and American Childhoods, in Children and Youth in a New Nation 69 (J. Marten ed. 2009) (hereinafter Marten); see also W. Cardell, Story of Jack Halyard, pp. xv-xvi (30th ed. 1834) (hereinafter Cardell) ("[T]he glory and efficacy of our institutions will soon rest with those who are growing up to succede us"). Children were "the pivot of the moral world," and their proper development was "a subject of as high interest, as any to which the human mind ha[d] ever been called." Id., at xvi.3     Based on these views of childhood, the founding generation understood parents to have a right and duty to govern their children's growth. Parents were expected to direct the development and education of their children and ensure that bad habits did not take root. See Calvert 58-59; MacLeod 72; Mintz & Kellogg 23. They were responsible for instilling "moral prohibitions, behavioral standards, and a capacity for self-government that would prepare a child for the outside world." Mintz & Kellogg 58; see also Youth's Companion, Apr. 16, 1827, p. 1 (hereinafter Youth's Companion) ("Let [children's] minds be formed, their hearts prepared, and their characters moulded for the scenes and the duties of a brighter day"). In short, "[h]ome and family bore the major responsibility for the moral training of children and thus, by implication, for the moral health of the nation." MacLeod 29; see also Introduction, in Marten 6; Reinier, p. xi; Smith, Autonomy and Affection: Parents and Children in Eighteenth-Century Chesapeake Families, in Growing up in America 54 (N. Hiner & J. Hawes eds. 1985).     This conception of parental rights and duties was exemplified by Thomas Jefferson's approach to raising children. He wrote letters to his daughters constantly and often gave specific instructions about what the children should do. See, e.g., Letter to Martha Jefferson (Nov. 28, 1783), in S. Randolph, The Domestic Life of Thomas Jefferson 44 (1939) (dictating her daily schedule of music, dancing, drawing, and studying); Letter to Martha Jefferson (Dec. 22, 1783), in id., at 45-46 ("I do not wish you to be gaily clothed at this time of life ... . [A]bove all things and at all times let your clothes be neat, whole, and properly put on"). Jefferson expected his daughter, Martha, to write "by every post" and instructed her, "Inform me what books you read [and] what tunes you learn." Letter (Nov. 28, 1783), in id., at 44. He took the same approach with his nephew, Peter Carr, after Carr's father died. See Letter (Aug. 19, 1785), in 8 The Papers of Thomas Jefferson 405-408 (J. Boyd ed. 1953) (detailing a course of reading and exercise, and asking for monthly progress reports describing "in what manner you employ every hour in the day"); see also 3 Dictionary of Virginia Biography 29 (2006).     Jefferson's rigorous management of his charges was not uncommon. "[M]uch evidence indicates that mothers and fathers both believed in giving their children a strict upbringing, enforcing obedience to their commands and stressing continued subjection to the parental will." Norton 96. Two parenting books published in the 1830's gave prototypical advice. In The Mother's Book, Lydia Child advised that "[t]he first and most important step in management is, that whatever a mother says, always must be done." Child 26. John Abbott, the author of The Mother at Home, likewise advised that "[o]bedience is absolutely essential to proper family government." Abbott 18. Echoing Locke, Abbott warned that parents who indulged a child's "foolish and unreasonable wishes" would doom that child to be indulgent in adulthood. Id., at 16.     The concept of total parental control over children's lives extended into the schools. "The government both of families and schools should be absolute," declared Noah Webster. Rudolph 57-58. Dr. Benjamin Rush concurred: "In the education of youth, let the authority of our masters be as absolute as possible." Id., at 16. Through the doctrine of in loco parentis, teachers assumed the " 'sacred dut[y] of parents ... to train up and qualify their children' " and exercised the same authority " 'to command obedience, to control stubbornness, to quicken diligence, and to reform bad habits.' " Morse v. Frederick, 551 U. S. 393, 413-414 (2007) (Thomas, J., concurring) (quoting State v. Pendergrass, 19 N. C. 365, 365-366 (1837)); see also Wishy 73. Thus, the quality of teachers and schools had to "be watched with the most scrupulous attention." Webster, in Rudolph 64.     For their part, children were expected to be dutiful and obedient. Mintz & Kellogg 53; Wishy 31; cf. J. Kett, Rites of Passage 45 (1977). Schoolbooks instructed children to do so and frequently featured vignettes illustrating the consequences of disobedience. See Adams, "Pictures of the Vicious ultimately overcome by misery and shame": The Cultural Work of Early National Schoolbooks (hereinafter Adams), in Marten 156. One oft-related example was the hangings of 19 alleged witches in 1692, which, the schoolbooks noted, likely began with false complaints by two young girls. See J. Morse, The American Geography 191 (1789); see also Adams, in Marten 164.     An entire genre of books, "loosely termed 'advice to youth,' " taught similar lessons well into the 1800's. J. Demos, Circles and Lines: The Shape of Life in Early America 73 (2004); cf. Wishy 54. "Next to your duty to God," advised one book, "is your duty to your parents" even if the child did not "understand the reason of their commands." L. Sigourney, The Girl's Reading Book 44 (14th ed. 1843); see also Filial Duty Recommended and Enforced, Introduction, p. iii (c. 1798); The Parent's Present 44 (3d ed. 1841). "Disobedience is generally punished in some way or other," warned another, "and often very severely." S. Goodrich, Peter Parley's Book of Fables 43 (1836); see also The Country School-House 27 (1848) ("[T]he number of children who die from the effects of disobedience to their parents is very large").4     Society's concern with children's development extended to the books they read. "Vice always spreads by being published," Noah Webster observed. Rudolph 62. "[Y]oung people are taught many vices by fiction, books, or public exhibitions, vices which they never would have known had they never read such books or attended such public places." Ibid.; see also Cardell, p. xii (cautioning parents that "[t]he first reading lessons for children have an extensive influence on the acquisitions and habits of future years"); Youth's Companion 1 ("[T]he capacities of children, and the peculiar situation and duties of youth, require select and appropriate reading"). Prominent children's authors harshly criticized fairy tales and the use of anthropomorphic animals. See, e.g., S. Goodrich, 2 Recollections of a Lifetime 320, n.* (1856) (describing fairy tales as "calculated to familiarize the mind with things shocking and monstrous; to cultivate a taste for tales of bloodshed and violence; to teach the young to use coarse language, and cherish vulgar ideas; ... and to fill [the youthful mind] with the horrors of a debased and debauched fancy"); 1 id., at 167 (recalling that children's books were "full of nonsense" and "lies"); Cardell, p. xiv ("The fancy of converting inferior animals into 'teachers of children,' has been carried to ridiculous extravagance"); see also MacDonald 83, 103 (noting that fables and works of fantasy were not popular in America in the 1700's).     Adults carefully controlled what they published for children. Stories written for children were dedicated to moral instruction and were relatively austere, lacking details that might titillate children's minds. See MacLeod 24-25, 42-48; see also id., at 42 ("The authors of juvenile fiction imposed the constraints upon themselves in the name of duty, and for the sake of giving children what they thought children should have, although they were often well aware that children might prefer more exciting fare"); Francis, American Children's Literature, 1646-1880, in American Childhood 208-209 (J. Hawes & N. Hiner eds. 1985). John Newbery, the publisher often credited with creating the genre of children's literature, removed traditional folk characters, like Tom Thumb, from their original stories and placed them in new morality tales in which good children were rewarded and disobedient children punished. Reinier 12.     Parents had total authority over what their children read. See A. MacLeod, American Childhood 177 (1994) ("Ideally, if not always actually, nineteenth-century parents regulated their children's lives fully, certainly including their reading"). Lydia Child put it bluntly in The Mother's Book: "Children ... should not read anything without a mother's knowledge and sanction; this is particularly necessary between the ages of twelve and sixteen." Child 92; see also id., at 143 ("[P]arents, or some guardian friends, should carefully examine every volume they put into the hands of young people"); E. Monaghan, Learning to Read and Write in Colonial America 337 (2005) (reviewing a 12-year-old girl's journal from the early 1770's and noting that the child's aunts monitored and guided her reading).5     The law at the time reflected the founding generation's understanding of parent-child relations. According to Sir William Blackstone, parents were responsible for maintaining, protecting, and education their children, and therefore had "power" over their children. 1 Commentaries on the Laws of England 434, 440 (1765); cf. Washington v. Glucksberg, 521 U. S. 702, 712 (1997) (Blackstone's Commentaries was "a primary legal authority for 18th- and 19th-century American lawyers"). Chancellor James Kent agreed. 2 Commentaries on American Law *189-*207. The law entitled parents to "the custody of their [children]," "the value of th[e] [children's] labor and services," and the "right to the exercise of such discipline as may be requisite for the discharge of their sacred trust." Id., at *193, *203. Children, in turn, were charged with "obedience and assistance during their own minority, and gratitude and reverance during the rest of their lives." Id., at *207.     Thus, in case after case, courts made clear that parents had a right to the child's labor and services until the child reached majority. In 1810, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts explained, "There is no question but that a father, who is entitled to the services of his minor son, and for whom he is obliged to provide, may, at the common law, assign those services to others, for a consideration to enure to himself." Day v. Everett, 7 Mass. 145, 147; see also Benson v. Remington, 2 Mass. 113, 115 (1806) (opinion of Parsons, C. J.) ("The law is very well settled, that parents are under obligations to support their children, and that they are entitled to their earnings"). Similarly, the Supreme Court of Judicature of New Hampshire noted that the right of parents to recover for the services of their child, while a minor, "cannot be contested." Gale v. Parrot, 1 N. H. 28, 29 (1817). And parents could bring tort suits against those who knowingly enticed a minor away from them. See, e.g., Kirkpatrick v. Lockhart, 2 Brev. 276 (S. C. Constitutional Ct. 1809); Jones v. Tevis, 4 Litt. 25 (Ky. App. 1823).     Relatedly, boys could not enlist in the military without parental consent. Many of those who did so during the Revolutionary War found, afterwards, that their fathers were entitled to their military wages. See Cox, Boy Soldiers of the American Revolution, in Marten 21-24. And after the war, minors who enlisted without parental consent in violation of federal law could find themselves returned home on writs of habeas corpus issued at their parents' request. See, e.g., United States v. Anderson, 24 F. Cas. 813 (No. 14,449) (CC Tenn. 1812); Commonwealth v. Callan, 6 Binn. 255 (Pa. 1814) (per curiam).     Laws also set age limits restricting marriage without parental consent. For example, from 1730 until at least 1849, Pennsylvania law required parental consent for the marriage of anyone under the age of 21. See 4 Statutes at Large of Pennsylvania 153 (J. Mitchell & H. Flanders eds. 1897) (hereinafter Pa. Stats. at Large); General Laws of Pennsylvania 82-83 (J. Dunlop 2d ed. 1849) (including the 1730 marriage law with no amendments); see also Perpetual Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts 253 (1788), in The First Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (J. Cushing ed. 1981). In general, "[p]ost-Revolutionary marriage law assumed that below a certain age, children could ... no[t] intellectually understand its significance." Grossberg 105.     Indeed, the law imposed age limits on all manner of activities that required judgment and reason. Children could not vote, could not serve on juries, and generally could not be witnesses in criminal cases unless they were older than 14. See Brewer 43, 145, 148, 159. Nor could they swear loyalty to a State. See, e.g., 9 Pa. Stats. at Large 111 (1903 ed.). Early federal laws granting aliens the ability to become citizens provided that those under 21 were deemed citizens if their fathers chose to naturalize. See, e.g., Act of Mar. 26, 1790, 1 Stat. 104; Act of Jan. 29, 1795, ch. 20, 1 Stat. 415.C     The history clearly shows a founding generation that believed parents to have complete authority over their minor children and expected parents to direct the development of those children. The Puritan tradition in New England laid the foundation of American parental authority and duty. See MacDonald 6 ("The Puritans are virtually the inventors of the family as we know it today"). In the decades leading up to and following the Revolution, the conception of the child's mind evolved but the duty and authority of parents remained. Indeed, society paid closer attention to potential influences on children than before. See Mintz 72 ("By weakening earlier forms of patriarchal authority, the Revolution enhanced the importance of childrearing and education in ensuring social stability"). Teachers and schools came under scrutiny, and children's reading material was carefully supervised. Laws reflected these concerns and often supported parental authority with the coercive power of the state.IIA     In light of this history, the Framers could not possibly have understood "the freedom of speech" to include an unqualified right to speak to minors. Specifically, I am sure that the founding generation would not have understood "the freedom of speech" to include a right to speak to children without going through their parents. As a consequence, I do not believe that laws limiting such speech--for example, by requiring parental consent to speak to a minor--"abridg[e] the freedom of speech" within the original meaning of the First Amendment.     We have recently noted that this Court does not have "freewheeling authority to declare new categories of speech outside the scope of the First Amendment." Stevens, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9). But we also recognized that there may be "some categories of speech that have been historically unprotected [and] have not yet been specifically identified or discussed as such in our case law." Ibid. In my opinion, the historical evidence here plainly reveals one such category.2B     Admittedly, the original public understanding of a constitutional provision does not always comport with modern sensibilities. See Morse, 551 U. S., at 419 (Thomas, J., concurring) (treating students "as though it were still the 19th century would find little support today"). It may also be inconsistent with precedent. See McDonald, 561 U. S., at ___-___ (Thomas, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 4852) (rejecting the Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36 (1873), as inconsistent with the original public meaning of the Privileges or Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment).     This, however, is not such a case. Although much has changed in this country since the Revolution, the notion that parents have authority over their children and that the law can support that authority persists today. For example, at least some States make it a crime to lure or entice a minor away from the minor's parent. See, e.g., Cal. Penal Code Ann. §272(b)(1) (West 2008); Fla. Stat. §787.03 (2010). Every State in the Union still establishes a minimum age for marriage without parental or judicial consent. Cf. Roper v. Simmons, 543 U. S. 551, 558 (Appendix D to opinion of Court) (2005). Individuals less than 18 years old cannot enlist in the military without parental consent. 10 U. S. C. §505(a). And minors remain subject to curfew laws across the country, see Brief for Louisiana et al. as Amici Curiae 16, and cannot unilaterally consent to most medical procedures, id., at 15.     Moreover, there are many things minors today cannot do at all, whether they have parental consent or not. State laws set minimum ages for voting and jury duty. See Roper, supra, at 581-585 (Appendixes B and C to opinion of Court). In California (the State at issue here), minors cannot drive for hire or drive a school bus, Cal. Veh. Code Ann. §§12515, 12516 (West 2010), purchase tobacco, Cal. Penal Code Ann. §308(b) (West 2008), play bingo for money, §326.5(e), or execute a will, Cal. Probate Code Ann. §6220 (West 2009).     My understanding of "the freedom of speech" is also consistent with this Court's precedents. To be sure, the Court has held that children are entitled to the protection of the First Amendment, see, e.g., Erznoznik v. Jacksonville, 422 U. S. 205, 212-213 (1975), and the government may not unilaterally dictate what children can say or hear, see id., at 213-214; Tinker v. Des Moines Independent Community School Dist., 393 U. S. 503, 511 (1969). But this Court has never held, until today, that "the freedom of speech" includes a right to speak to minors (or a right of minors to access speech) without going through the minors' parents. To the contrary, "[i]t is well settled that a State or municipality can adopt more stringent controls on communicative materials available to youths than on those available to adults." Erznoznik, supra, at 212; cf. post, at 3 (Breyer, J., dissenting).     The Court's constitutional jurisprudence "historically has reflected Western civilization concepts of the family as a unit with broad parental authority over minor children." Parham v. J. R., 442 U. S. 584, 602 (1979). Under that case law, "legislature[s] [can] properly conclude that parents and others, teachers for example, who have ... primary responsibility for children's well-being are entitled to the support of laws designed to aid discharge of that responsibility." Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U. S. 629, 639 (1968); see also Bellotti v. Baird, 443 U. S. 622, 635 (1979) (opinion of Powell, J.) ("[T]he State is entitled to adjust its legal system to account for children's vulnerability and their needs for concern, ... sympathy, and ... paternal attention" (internal quotation marks omitted)). This is because "the tradition of parental authority is not inconsistent with our tradition of individual liberty; rather, the former is one of the basic presuppositions of the latter." Id., at 638; id., at 638-639 ("Legal restrictions on minors, especially those supportive of the parental role, may be important to the child's chances for the full growth and maturity that make eventual participation in a free society meaningful and rewarding").III     The California law at issue here prohibits the sale or rental of "violent video game[s]" to minors, defined as anyone "under 18 years of age." Cal. Civ. Code Ann. §§1746.1(a), 1746 (West 2009). A violation of the law is punishable by a civil fine of up to $1,000. §1746.3. Critically, the law does not prohibit adults from buying or renting violent video games for a minor or prohibit minors from playing such games. Cf. ante, at 10 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment); post, at 10 (Breyer, J., dissenting). The law also does not restrict a "minor's parent, grandparent, aunt, uncle, or legal guardian" from selling or renting him a violent video game. §1746.1(c).     Respondents, associations of companies in the video game industry, brought a preenforcement challenge to California's law, claiming that on its face the law violates the free speech rights of their members. The Court holds that video games are speech for purposes of the First Amendment and finds the statute facially unconstitutional. See ante, at 2-3, 11-17. I disagree.     Under any of this Court's standards for a facial First Amendment challenge, this one must fail. The video game associations cannot show "that no set of circumstances exists under which [the law] would be valid," "that the statute lacks any plainly legitimate sweep," or that "a substantial number of its applications are unconstitutional, judged in relation to the statute's plainly legitimate sweep." Stevens, 559 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10) (internal quotation marks omitted). Even assuming that video games are speech, in most applications the California law does not implicate the First Amendment. All that the law does is prohibit the direct sale or rental of a violent video game to a minor by someone other than the minor's parent, grandparent, aunt, uncle, or legal guardian. Where a minor has a parent or guardian, as is usually true, the law does not prevent that minor from obtaining a violent video game with his parent's or guardian's help. In the typical case, the only speech affected is speech that bypasses a minor's parent or guardian. Because such speech does not fall within "the freedom of speech" as originally understood, California's law does not ordinarily implicate the First Amendment and is not facially unconstitutional.3*??*??*     "The freedom of speech," as originally understood, does not include a right to speak to minors without going through the minors' parents or guardians. Therefore, I cannot agree that the statute at issue is facially unconstitutional under the First Amendment.     I respectfully dissent.EDMUND G. BROWN, Jr., GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA, et al., PETITIONERS v. ENTERTAINMENT MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION et al.on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[June 27, 2011]     Justice Breyer, dissenting.     California imposes a civil fine of up to $1,000 upon any person who distributes a violent video game in California without labeling it "18," or who sells or rents a labeled violent video game to a person under the age of 18. Representatives of the video game and software industries, claiming that the statute violates the First Amendment on its face, seek an injunction against its enforcement. Applying traditional First Amendment analysis, I would uphold the statute as constitutional on its face and would consequently reject the industries' facial challenge.IA     California's statute defines a violent video game as: A game in which a player "kill[s], maim[s], dismember[s], or sexually assault[s] an image of a human being,"and"[a] reasonable person, considering the game as a whole, would find [the game] appeals to a deviant or morbid interest of minors,"and"[the game] is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the community as to what is suitable for minors,"and"the game, as a whole, ... lack[s] serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value for minors." Cal. Civ. Code Ann. §1746(d)(1) (West 2009).The statute in effect forbids the sale of such a game to minors unless they are accompanied by a parent; it requires the makers of the game to affix a label identifying it as a game suitable only for those aged 18 and over; it exempts retailers from liability unless such a label is properly affixed to the game; and it imposes a civil fine of up to $1,000 upon a violator. See §§1746.1-1746.3.B     A facial challenge to this statute based on the First Amendment can succeed only if "a substantial number of its applications are unconstitutional, judged in relation to the statute's plainly legitimate sweep." United States v. Stevens, 559 U. S. __, __ (2010) (slip op., at 10) (internal quotation marks omitted). Moreover, it is more difficult to mount a facial First Amendment attack on a statute that seeks to regulate activity that involves action as well as speech. See Broadrick v. Oklahoma, 413 U. S. 601, 614-615 (1973). Hence, I shall focus here upon an area within which I believe the State can legitimately apply its statute, namely sales to minors under the age of 17 (the age cutoff used by the industry's own ratings system), of highly realistic violent video games, which a reasonable game maker would know meet the Act's criteria. That area lies at the heart of the statute. I shall assume that the number of instances in which the State will enforce the statute within that area is comparatively large, and that the number outside that area (for example, sales to 17-year-olds) is comparatively small. And the activity the statute regulates combines speech with action (a virtual form of target practice).C     In determining whether the statute is unconstitutional, I would apply both this Court's "vagueness" precedents and a strict form of First Amendment scrutiny. In doing so, the special First Amendment category I find relevant is not (as the Court claims) the category of "depictions of violence," ante, at 8, but rather the category of "protection of children." This Court has held that the "power of the state to control the conduct of children reaches beyond the scope of its authority over adults." Prince v. Massachusetts, 321 U. S. 158, 170 (1944). And the " 'regulatio[n] of communication addressed to [children] need not conform to the requirements of the [F]irst [A]mendment in the same way as those applicable to adults.' " Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U. S. 629, 638, n. 6 (1968) (quoting Emerson, Toward a General Theory of the First Amendment, 72 Yale L. J. 877, 939 (1963)).     The majority's claim that the California statute, if upheld, would create a "new categor[y] of unprotected speech," ante, at 3, 6, is overstated. No one here argues that depictions of violence, even extreme violence, automatically fall outside the First Amendment's protective scope as, for example, do obscenity and depictions of child pornography. We properly speak of categories of expression that lack protection when, like "child pornography," the category is broad, when it applies automatically, and when the State can prohibit everyone, including adults, from obtaining access to the material within it. But where, as here, careful analysis must precede a narrower judicial conclusion (say, denying protection to a shout of "fire" in a crowded theater, or to an effort to teach a terrorist group how to peacefully petition the United Nations), we do not normally describe the result as creating a "new category of unprotected speech." See Schenck v. United States, 249 U. S. 47, 52 (1919); Holder v. Humanitarian Law Project, 561 U. S. __ (2010).     Thus, in Stevens, after rejecting the claim that all de-pictions of animal cruelty (a category) fall outside the First Amendment's protective scope, we went on to decide whether the particular statute at issue violates the First Amendment under traditional standards; and we held that, because the statute was overly broad, it was invalid. Similarly, here the issue is whether, applying traditional First Amendment standards, this statute does, or does not, pass muster.II     In my view, California's statute provides "fair notice of what is prohibited," and consequently it is not impermissibly vague. United States v. Williams, 553 U. S. 285, 304 (2008). Ginsberg explains why that is so. The Court there considered a New York law that forbade the sale to minors of a"picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion picture film, or similar visual representation or image of a person or portion of the human body which depicts nudity . . . ,"that"predominately appeals to the prurient, shameful or morbid interest of minors,"and"is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for minors,"and"is utterly without redeeming social importance for minors." 390 U. S., at 646-647.This Court upheld the New York statute in Ginsberg (which is sometimes unfortunately confused with a very different, earlier case, Ginzburg v. United States, 383 U. S. 463 (1966)). The five-Justice majority, in an opinion written by Justice Brennan, wrote that the statute was sufficiently clear. 390 U. S., at 643-645. No Member of the Court voiced any vagueness objection. See id., at 648-650 (Stewart, J., concurring in result); id., at 650-671 (Douglas, J., joined by Black, J., dissenting); id., at 671-675 (Fortas, J., dissenting).     Comparing the language of California's statute (set forth supra, at 1-2) with the language of New York's statute (set forth immediately above), it is difficult to find any vagueness-related difference. Why are the words "kill," "maim," and "dismember" any more difficult to understand than the word "nudity?" Justice Alito objects that these words do "not perform the narrowing function" that this Court has required in adult obscenity cases, where statutes can only cover " 'hard core' " depictions. Ante, at 6 (opinion concurring in judgment). But the relevant comparison is not to adult obscenity cases but to Ginsberg, which dealt with "nudity," a category no more "narrow" than killing and maiming. And in any event, narrowness and vagueness do not necessarily have anything to do with one another. All that is required for vagueness purposes is that the terms "kill," "maim," and "dismember" give fair notice as to what they cover, which they do.     The remainder of California's definition copies, almost word for word, the language this Court used in Miller v. California, 413 U. S. 15 (1973), in permitting a total ban on material that satisfied its definition (one enforced with criminal penalties). The California law's reliance on "community standards" adheres to Miller, and in Fort Wayne Books, Inc. v. Indiana, 489 U. S. 46, 57-58 (1989), this Court specifically upheld the use of Miller's language against charges of vagueness. California only departed from the Miller formulation in two significant respects: It substituted the word "deviant" for the words "prurient" and "shameful," and it three times added the words "for minors." The word "deviant" differs from "prurient" and "shameful," but it would seem no less suited to defining and narrowing the reach of the statute. And the addition of "for minors" to a version of the Miller standard was approved in Ginsberg, 390 U. S., at 643, even though the New York law "dr[ew] no distinction between young children and adolescents who are nearing the age of majority," ante, at 8 (opinion of Alito, J.).     Both the Miller standard and the law upheld in Ginsberg lack perfect clarity. But that fact reflects the difficulty of the Court's long search for words capable of protecting expression without depriving the State of a legitimate constitutional power to regulate. As is well known, at one point Justice Stewart thought he could do no better in defining obscenity than, "I know it when I see it." Jacobellis v. Ohio, 378 U. S. 184, 197 (1964) (concurring opinion). And Justice Douglas dissented from Miller's standard, which he thought was still too vague. 413 U. S., at 39-40. Ultimately, however, this Court accepted the "community standards" tests used in Miller and Ginsberg. They reflect the fact that sometimes, even when a precise standard proves elusive, it is easy enough to identify instances that fall within a legitimate regulation. And they seek to draw a line, which, while favoring free expression, will nonetheless permit a legislature to find the words necessary to accomplish a legitimate constitutional objective. Cf. Williams, supra, at 304 (the Constitution does not always require " 'perfect clarity and precise guidance,' " even when " 'expressive activity' " is involved).     What, then, is the difference between Ginsberg and Miller on the one hand and the California law on the other? It will often be easy to pick out cases at which California's statute directly aims, involving, say, a character who shoots out a police officer's knee, douses him with gasoline, lights him on fire, urinates on his burning body, and finally kills him with a gunshot to the head. (Footage of one such game sequence has been submitted in the record.) See also ante, at 14-15 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment). As in Miller and Ginsberg, the California law clearly protects even the most violent games that possess serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value. §1746(d)(1)(A)(iii). And it is easier here than in Miller or Ginsberg to separate the sheep from the goats at the statute's border. That is because here the industry itself has promulgated standards and created a review process, in which adults who "typically have experience with children" assess what games are inappropriate for minors. See Entertainment Software Rating Board, Rating Process, online at http://www.esrb.org/ratings/&ratings_ process.jsp (all Internet materials as visited June 24, 2011, and available in Clerk of Court's case file).     There is, of course, one obvious difference: The Ginsberg statute concerned depictions of "nudity," while California's statute concerns extremely violent video games. But for purposes of vagueness, why should that matter? Justice Alito argues that the Miller standard sufficed because there are "certain generally accepted norms concerning expression related to sex," whereas there are no similarly "accepted standards regarding the suitability of violent entertainment." Ante, at 7-8. But there is no evidence that is so. The Court relied on "community standards" in Miller precisely because of the difficulty of articulating "accepted norms" about depictions of sex. I can find no difference--historical or otherwise--that is relevant to the vagueness question. Indeed, the majority's examples of literary descriptions of violence, on which Justice Alito relies, do not show anything relevant at all.     After all, one can find in literature as many (if not more) descriptions of physical love as descriptions of violence. Indeed, sex "has been a theme in art and literature throughout the ages." Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition, 535 U. S. 234, 246 (2002). For every Homer, there is a Titian. For every Dante, there is an Ovid. And for all the teenagers who have read the original versions of Grimm's Fairy Tales, I suspect there are those who know the story of Lady Godiva.     Thus, I can find no meaningful vagueness-related dif-ferences between California's law and the New York law upheld in Ginsberg. And if there remain any vagueness problems, the state courts can cure them through interpretation. See Erznoznik v. Jacksonville, 422 U. S. 205, 216 (1975) ("[S]tate statute should not be deemed facially invalid unless it is not readily subject to a narrowing construction by the state courts"). Cf. Ginsberg, supra, at 644 (relying on the fact that New York Court of Appeals would read a knowledge requirement into the statute); Berry v. Santa Barbara, 40 Cal. App. 4th 1075, 1088-1089, 47 Cal. Rptr. 2d 661, 669 (1995) (reading a knowledge requirement into a statute). Consequently, for purposes of this facial challenge, I would not find the statute unconstitutionally vague.III     Video games combine physical action with expression. Were physical activity to predominate in a game, government could appropriately intervene, say by requiring parents to accompany children when playing a game in-volving actual target practice, or restricting the sale of toys presenting physical dangers to children. See generally Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, 122 Stat. 3016 ("Title I--Children's Product Safety"). But because video games also embody important expressive and artistic elements, I agree with the Court that the First Amendment significantly limits the State's power to regulate. And I would determine whether the State has exceeded those limits by applying a strict standard of review.     Like the majority, I believe that the California law must be "narrowly tailored" to further a "compelling interest," without there being a "less restrictive" alternative that would be "at least as effective." Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union, 521 U. S. 844, 874, 875, 879 (1997). I would not apply this strict standard "mechanically." United States v. Playboy Entertainment Group, Inc., 529 U. S. 803, 841 (2000) (Breyer, J., joined by Rehnquist, C. J., and O'Connor and Scalia, JJ., dissenting). Rather, in applying it, I would evaluate the degree to which the statute injures speech-related interests, the nature of the potentially-justifying "compelling interests," the degree to which the statute furthers that interest, the nature and effectiveness of possible alternatives, and, in light of this evaluation, whether, overall, "the statute works speech-related harm . . . out of proportion to the benefits that the statute seeks to provide." Ibid. See also Burson v. Freeman, 504 U. S. 191, 210 (1992) (plurality opinion) (applying strict scrutiny and finding relevant the lack of a "significant impingement" on speech).     First Amendment standards applied in this way are difficult but not impossible to satisfy. Applying "strict scrutiny" the Court has upheld restrictions on speech that, for example, ban the teaching of peaceful dispute resolution to a group on the State Department's list of terrorist organizations, Holder, 561 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 22-34); but cf. id., at ___ (slip op., at 1 ) (Breyer, J., dissenting), and limit speech near polling places, Burson, supra, at 210-211 (plurality opinion). And applying less clearly defined but still rigorous standards, the Court has allowed States to require disclosure of petition signers, Doe v. Reed, 561 U. S. ___ (2010), and to impose campaign contribution limits that were " 'closely drawn' to match a 'sufficiently important interest,' " Nixon v. Shrink Missouri Government PAC, 528 U. S. 377, 387-388 (2000).     Moreover, although the Court did not specify the "level of scrutiny" it applied in Ginsberg, we have subsequently described that case as finding a "compelling interest" in protecting children from harm sufficient to justify limitations on speech. See Sable Communications of Cal., Inc. v. FCC, 492 U. S. 115, 126 (1989). Since the Court in Ginsberg specified that the statute's prohibition applied to material that was not obscene, 390 U. S., at 634, I cannot dismiss Ginsberg on the ground that it concerned obscenity. But cf. ante, at 6 (majority opinion). Nor need I depend upon the fact that the Court in Ginsberg insisted only that the legislature have a "rational" basis for finding the depictions there at issue harmful to children. 390 U. S., at 639. For in this case, California has substan-tiated its claim of harm with considerably stronger evidence.A     California's law imposes no more than a modest restriction on expression. The statute prevents no one from playing a video game, it prevents no adult from buying a video game, and it prevents no child or adolescent from obtaining a game provided a parent is willing to help. §1746.1(c). All it prevents is a child or adolescent from buying, without a parent's assistance, a gruesomely violent video game of a kind that the industry itself tells us it wants to keep out of the hands of those under the age of 17. See Brief for Respondents 8.     Nor is the statute, if upheld, likely to create a precedent that would adversely affect other media, say films, or videos, or books. A typical video game involves a significant amount of physical activity. See ante, at 13-14 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment) (citing examples of the increasing interactivity of video game controllers). And pushing buttons that achieve an interactive, virtual form of target practice (using images of human beings as targets), while containing an expressive component, is not just like watching a typical movie. See infra, at 14.B     The interest that California advances in support of the statute is compelling. As this Court has previously described that interest, it consists of both (1) the "basic" parental claim "to authority in their own household to direct the rearing of their children," which makes it proper to enact "laws designed to aid discharge of [parental] responsibility," and (2) the State's "independent interest in the well-being of its youth." Ginsberg, 390 U. S., at 639-640. Cf. id., at 639, n. 7 (" '[O]ne can well distinguish laws which do not impose a morality on children, but which support the right of parents to deal with the morals of their children as they see fit' " (quoting Henkin, Morals and the Constitution: The Sin of Obscenity, 63 Colum. L. Rev. 391, 413, n. 68 (1963))). And where these interests work in tandem, it is not fatally "underinclusive" for a State to advance its interests in protecting children against the special harms present in an interactive video game medium through a default rule that still allows parents to provide their children with what their parents wish.     Both interests are present here. As to the need to help parents guide their children, the Court noted in 1968 that " 'parental control or guidance cannot always be provided.' " 390 U. S., at 640. Today, 5.3 million grade-school-age children of working parents are routinely home alone. See Dept. of Commerce, Census Bureau, Who's Minding the Kids? Child Care Arrangements: Spring 2005/Summer 2006, p. 12 (2010), online at http:// www.census.gov/prod/2010pubs/p70-121.pdf. Thus, it has, if anything, become more important to supplement parents' authority to guide their children's development.     As to the State's independent interest, we have pointed out that juveniles are more likely to show a " 'lack of maturity' " and are "more vulnerable or susceptible to negative influences and outside pressures," and that their "character . . . is not as well formed as that of an adult." Roper v. Simmons, 543 U. S. 551, 569-570 (2005). And we have therefore recognized "a compelling interest in protecting the physical and psychological well-being of minors." Sable Communications, supra, at 126.     At the same time, there is considerable evidence that California's statute significantly furthers this compelling interest. That is, in part, because video games are excellent teaching tools. Learning a practical task often means developing habits, becoming accustomed to performing the task, and receiving positive reinforcement when performing that task well. Video games can help develop habits, accustom the player to performance of the task, and reward the player for performing that task well. Why else would the Armed Forces incorporate video games into its training? See CNN, War Games: Military Training Goes High-Tech (Nov. 22, 2001), online at http://articles.cnn.com / 2001-11-2 / tech /2war.games_1_ictbill-swartout-real-world-training?_s=PM:TECH.     When the military uses video games to help soldiers train for missions, it is using this medium for a beneficial purpose. But California argues that when the teaching features of video games are put to less desirable ends, harm can ensue. In particular, extremely violent games can harm children by rewarding them for being violently aggressive in play, and thereby often teaching them to be violently aggressive in life. And video games can cause more harm in this respect than can typically passive media, such as books or films or television programs.     There are many scientific studies that support California's views. Social scientists, for example, have found causal evidence that playing these games results in harm. Longitudinal studies, which measure changes over time, have found that increased exposure to violent video games causes an increase in aggression over the same period. See Möller & Krahé, Exposure to Violent Video Games and Aggression in German Adolescents: A Longitudinal Analysis, 35 Aggressive Behavior 75 (2009); Gentile & Gentile, Violent Video Games as Exemplary Teachers: A Conceptual Analysis, 37 J. Youth & Adolescence 127 (2008); Anderson et al., Longitudinal Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggression in Japan and the United States, 122 Pediatrics e1067 (2008); Wallenius & Punamäki, Digital Game Violence and Direct Aggression in Adolescence: A Longitudinal Study of the Roles of Sex, Age, and Parent-Child Communication, 29 J. Applied Developmental Psychology 286 (2008).     Experimental studies in laboratories have found that subjects randomly assigned to play a violent video game subsequently displayed more characteristics of aggression than those who played nonviolent games. See, e.g., Anderson et al., Violent Video Games: Specific Effects of Violent Content on Aggressive Thoughts and Behavior, 36 Advances in Experimental Soc. Psychology 199 (2004).     Surveys of 8th and 9th grade students have found a correlation between playing violent video games and aggression. See, e.g., Gentile, Lynch, Linder, & Walsh, The Effects of Violent Video Game Habits On Adolescent Hostility, Aggressive Behaviors, and School Performance, 27 J. Adolescence 5 (2004).     Cutting-edge neuroscience has shown that "virtual violence in video game playing results in those neural patterns that are considered characteristic for aggressive cognition and behavior." Weber, Ritterfeld, & Mathiak, Does Playing Violent Video Games Induce Aggression? Empirical Evidence of a Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Study, 8 Media Psychology 39, 51 (2006).     And "meta-analyses," i.e., studies of all the studies, have concluded that exposure to violent video games "was positively associated with aggressive behavior, aggressive cognition, and aggressive affect," and that "playing violent video games is a causal risk factor for long-term harmful outcomes." Anderson et al., Violent Video Game Effects on Aggression, Empathy, and Prosocial Behavior in Eastern and Western Countries: A Meta-Analytic Review, 136 Psychological Bulletin 151, 167, 169 (2010) (emphasis added).     Some of these studies take care to explain in a common- sense way why video games are potentially more harmful than, say, films or books or television. In essence, they say that the closer a child's behavior comes, not to watching, but to acting out horrific violence, the greater the potential psychological harm. See Bushman & Huesmann, Aggression, in 2 Handbook of Social Pscyhology 833, 851 (S. Fiske, D. Gilbert, & G. Lindzey eds., 5th ed. 2010) (video games stimulate more aggression because "[p]eople learn better when they are actively involved," players are "more likely to identify with violent characters," and "violent games directly reward violent behavior"); Polman, de Castro, & van Aken, Experimental Study of the Differential Effects of Playing Versus Watching Violent Video Games on Children's Aggressive Behavior, 34 Aggressive Behavior 256 (2008) (finding greater aggression resulting from playing, as opposed to watching, a violent game); C. Anderson, D. Gentile, & K. Buckley, Violent Video Game Effects on Children and Adolescents 136-137 (2007) (three studies finding greater effects from games as opposed to television). See also infra, at 15-16 (statements of expert public health associations agreeing that interactive games can be more harmful than "passive" media like television); ante, at 12-17 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment).     Experts debate the conclusions of all these studies. Like many, perhaps most, studies of human behavior, each study has its critics, and some of those critics have produced studies of their own in which they reach different conclusions. (I list both sets of research in the appendixes.) I, like most judges, lack the social science expertise to say definitively who is right. But associations of public health professionals who do possess that expertise have reviewed many of these studies and found a significant risk that violent video games, when compared with more passive media, are particularly likely to cause children harm.     Eleven years ago, for example, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, the American Psychological Association, the American Medical Association, the American Academy of Family Physicians, and the American Psychiatric Association released a joint statement, which said:"[O]ver 1000 studies . . . point overwhelmingly to a causal connection between media violence and aggressive behavior in some children . . . [and, though less research had been done at that time, preliminary studies indicated that] the impact of violent interactive entertainment (video games and other interactive media) on young people . . . may be significantly more severe than that wrought by television, movies, or music." Joint Statement on the Impact of Entertainment Violence on Children (2000) (emphasis added), online at http://www.aap.org/advocacy/releases/jstmtevc.htm.     Five years later, after more research had been done, the American Psychological Association adopted a resolution that said:"[C]omprehensive analysis of violent interactive video game research suggests such exposure . . . increases aggressive behavior, . . . increases aggressive thoughts, . . . increases angry feelings, . . . decreases helpful behavior, and . . . increases physiological arousal." Resolution on Violence in Video Games and Interactive Media (2005), online at http:// www.apa.org / about / governance / council / policy/ interactive-media.pdf.The Association added:"[T]he practice, repetition, and rewards for acts of violence may be more conducive to increasing aggressive behavior among children and youth than passively watching violence on TV and in films." Ibid. (emphasis added).Four years after that, in 2009, the American Academy of Pediatrics issued a statement in significant part about interactive media. It said:"Studies of these rapidly growing and ever-more-sophisticated types of media have indicated that the effects of child-initiated virtual violence may be even more profound than those of passive media such as television. In many games the child or teenager is 'embedded' in the game and uses a 'joystick' (handheld controller) that enhances both the experience and the aggressive feelings." Policy Statement--Media Violence, 124 Pediatrics 1495, 1498 (2009) (emphasis added).It added:"Correlational and experimental studies have revealed that violent video games lead to increases in aggressive behavior and aggressive thinking and decreases in prosocial behavior. Recent longitudinal studies . . . have revealed that in as little as 3 months, high exposure to violent video games increased physical aggression. Other recent longitudinal studies . . . have revealed similar effects across 2 years." Ibid. (footnotes omitted).     Unlike the majority, I would find sufficient grounds in these studies and expert opinions for this Court to defer to an elected legislature's conclusion that the video games in question are particularly likely to harm children. This Court has always thought it owed an elected legislature some degree of deference in respect to legislative facts of this kind, particularly when they involve technical matters that are beyond our competence, and even in First Amendment cases. See Holder, 561 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 28-29) (deferring, while applying strict scrutiny, to the Government's national security judgments); Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, 520 U. S. 180, 195-196 (1997) (deferring, while applying intermediate scrutiny, to the Government's technological judgments). The majority, in reaching its own, opposite conclusion about the validity of the relevant studies, grants the legislature no deference at all. Compare ante, at 12-13 (stating that the studies do not provide evidence that violent video games "cause" harm (emphasis deleted)), with supra, at 12-13 (citing longitudinal studies finding causation).C     I can find no "less restrictive" alternative to California's law that would be "at least as effective." See Reno, 521 U. S., at 874. The majority points to a voluntary alternative: The industry tries to prevent those under 17 from buying extremely violent games by labeling those games with an "M" (Mature) and encouraging retailers to restrict their sales to those 17 and older. See ante, at 15-16. But this voluntary system has serious enforcement gaps. When California enacted its law, a Federal Trade Commission (FTC) study had found that nearly 70% of unaccompanied 13- to 16-year-olds were able to buy M-rated video games. FTC, Marketing Violent Entertainment to Children 27 (2004), online at http://www.ftc.gov/os/2004/ 07/040708kidsviolencerpt.pdf. Subsequently the voluntary program has become more effective. But as of the FTC's most recent update to Congress, 20% of those under 17 are still able to buy M-rated video games, and, breaking down sales by store, one finds that this number rises to nearly 50% in the case of one large national chain. FTC, Marketing Violent Entertainment to Children 28 (2009), online at http://www.ftc.gov/os/2009/12/ P994511violententertainment.pdf. And the industry could easily revert back to the substantial noncompliance that existed in 2004, particularly after today's broad ruling reduces the industry's incentive to police itself.     The industry also argues for an alternative technological solution, namely "filtering at the console level." Brief for Respondents 53. But it takes only a quick search of the Internet to find guides explaining how to circumvent any such technological controls. YouTube viewers, for example, have watched one of those guides (called "How to bypass parental controls on the Xbox 360") more than 47,000 times. See http://www.youtube.com/watch?v= CFlVfVmvN6k.IV     The upshot is that California's statute, as applied to its heartland of applications (i.e., buyers under 17; extremely violent, realistic video games), imposes a restriction on speech that is modest at most. That restriction is justified by a compelling interest (supplementing parents' efforts to prevent their children from purchasing potentially harmful violent, interactive material). And there is no equally effective, less restrictive alternative. California's statute is consequently constitutional on its face--though litigants remain free to challenge the statute as applied in particular instances, including any effort by the State to apply it to minors aged 17.     I add that the majority's different conclusion creates a serious anomaly in First Amendment law. Ginsberg makes clear that a State can prohibit the sale to minors of depictions of nudity; today the Court makes clear that a State cannot prohibit the sale to minors of the most violent interactive video games. But what sense does it make to forbid selling to a 13-year-old boy a magazine with an image of a nude woman, while protecting a sale to that 13-year-old of an interactive video game in which he actively, but virtually, binds and gags the woman, then tortures and kills her? What kind of First Amendment would permit the government to protect children by restricting sales of that extremely violent video game only when the woman--bound, gagged, tortured, and killed--is also topless?     This anomaly is not compelled by the First Amendment. It disappears once one recognizes that extreme violence, where interactive, and without literary, artistic, or similar justification, can prove at least as, if not more, harmful to children as photographs of nudity. And the record here is more than adequate to support such a view. That is why I believe that Ginsberg controls the outcome here a fortiori. And it is why I believe California's law is constitutional on its face.     This case is ultimately less about censorship than it is about education. Our Constitution cannot succeed in securing the liberties it seeks to protect unless we can raise future generations committed cooperatively to making our system of government work. Education, however, is about choices. Sometimes, children need to learn by making choices for themselves. Other times, choices are made for children--by their parents, by their teachers, and by the people acting democratically through their governments. In my view, the First Amendment does not disable government from helping parents make such a choice here--a choice not to have their children buy extremely violent, interactive video games, which they more than reasonably fear pose only the risk of harm to those children.     For these reasons, I respectfully dissent.APPENDIXES     With the assistance of the Supreme Court Library, I have compiled these two appendixes listing peer-reviewed academic journal articles on the topic of psychological harm resulting from playing violent video games. The library conducted a search for relevant articles on the following databases: PsycINFO, PubMed, Academic Search Premier, ArticleFirst (OCLC), and Dialog (files 1, 7, 34, 98, 121, 142, 144, 149). The following search terms were used: "(video* or computer or arcade or online) and (game*) and (attack* or fight* or aggress* or violen* or hostil* or ang* or arous* or prosocial or help* or desens* or empathy)." After eliminating irrelevant matches based on title or abstract, I categorized these articles as either supporting the hypothesis that violent video games are harmful (listed in Appendix A), or not supporting/rejecting the hypothesis that violent video games are harmful (listed in Appendix B).     Many, but not all, of these articles were available to the California Legislature or the parties in briefing this case. I list them because they suggest that there is substantial (though controverted) evidence supporting the expert associations of public health professionals that have concluded that violent video games can cause children psychological harm. See supra, at 15-16. And consequently, these studies help to substantiate the validity of the original judgment of the California Legislature, as well as that judgment's continuing validity.AAnderson & Bushman, Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggressive Behavior, Aggressive Cognition, Aggressive Affect, Physiological Arousal, and Prosocial Behavior: A Meta-Analytic Review of the Scientific Literature, 12 Psychological Science: J. Am. Psychological Society 353 (2001).Anderson & Dill, Video Games and Aggressive Thoughts, Feelings, & Behavior in the Laboratory and in Life, 78 J. Personality & Soc. Psychology 772 (2000).Anderson et al., Violent Video Games: Specific Effects of Violent Content on Aggressive Thoughts and Behavior, 36 Advances in Experimental Soc. Psychology 199 (2004).Anderson & Ford, Affect of the Game Player: Short-Term Effects of Highly and Mildly Aggressive Video Games, 12 Personality & Soc. Psychology Bull. 390 (1986).Anderson & Morrow, Competitive Aggression Without Interaction: Effects of Competitive Versus Cooperative Instructions on Aggressive Behavior in Video Games, 21 Personality & Soc. Psychology Bull. 1020 (1995).Anderson et al., Longitudinal Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggression in Japan and the United States, 122 Pediatrics e1067 (2008).Anderson et al., Violent Video Game Effects on Aggression, Empathy, and Prosocial Behavior in Eastern and Western Countries: A Meta-Analytic Review, 136 Psychological Bull. 151 (2010).Anderson, An Update on the Effects of Playing Violent Video Games, 27 J. Adolescence 113 (2004).Anderson et al., The Influence of Media Violence on Youth, 4 Psychological Science in the Public Interest 81 (2003).Anderson & Carnagey, Causal Effects of Violent Sports Video Games on Aggression: Is it Competitiveness or Violent Content? 45 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 731 (2009).Anderson & Murphy, Violent Video Games and Aggressive Behavior in Young Women, 29 Aggressive Behavior 423 (2003).Arriaga, Esteves, Carneiro, & Monteiro, Violent Computer Games and Their Effects on State Hostility and Physiological Arousal, 32 Aggressive Behavior 358 (2006).Arriaga, Esteves, Carneiro, & Monteiro, Are the Effects of Unreal Violent Video Games Pronounced When Playing With a Virtual Reality System? 34 Aggressive Behavior 521 (2008).Baldaro et al., Aggressive and Non-Violent Videogames: Short-Term Psychological and Cardiovascular Effects on Habitual Players, 20 Stress & Health: J. Int'l Society for Investigation of Stress 203 (2004).Ballard, Hamby, Panee, & Nivens, Repeated Exposure to Video Game Play Results in Decreased Blood Pressure Responding, 8 Media Psychology 323 (2006).Ballard & Lineberger, Video Game Violence and Confederate Gender: Effects on Reward and Punishment Given by College Males, 41 Sex Roles 541 (1999).Ballard & Wiest, Mortal Kombat (tm): The Effects of Violent Videogame Play on Males' Hostility and Cardiovascular Responding, 26 J. Applied Soc. Psychology 717 (1996).Barlett, Branch, Rodeheffer, & Harris, How Long do the Short-Term Violent Video Game Effects Last? 35 Aggressive Behavior 225 (2009).Barlett, Rodeheffer, Baldassaro, Hinkin, & Harris, The Effect of Advances in Video Game Technology and Content on Aggressive Cognitions, Hostility, and Heart Rate, 11 Media Psychology 540 (2008).Barlett, Harris, & Baldassaro, Longer You Play, the More Hostile You Feel: Examination of First Person Shooter Video Games and Aggression During Video Game Play, 33 Aggressive Behavior 486 (2007).Barlett, Harris, & Bruey, The Effect of the Amount of Blood in a Violent Video Game on Aggression, Hostility, and Arousal, 44 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 539 (2008).Barlett & Rodeheffer, Effects of Realism on Extended Violent and Nonviolent Video Game Play on Aggressive Thoughts, Feelings, and Physiological Arousal, 35 Aggressive Behavior 213 (2009).Barlett, Anderson, & Swing, Video Game Effects--Confirmed, Suspected, and Speculative: A Review of the Evidence, 40 Simulation & Gaming 377 (2009).Bartholow, Sestir, & Davis, Correlates and Consequences of Exposure to Video Game Violence: Hostile Personality, Empathy, and Aggressive Behavior, 31 Personality & Soc. Psychology Bull. 1573 (2005).Bartholow & Anderson, Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggressive Behavior: Potential Sex Differences, 38 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 283 (2002).Bartholow, Bushman, & Sestir, Chronic Violent Video Game Exposure and Desensitization to Violence: Behavioral and Event-Related Brain Potential Data, 42 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 532 (2006).Bluemke, Friedrich, & Zumbach, The Influence of Violent and Nonviolent Computer Games on Implicit Measures of Aggressiveness, 36 Aggressive Behavior 1 (2010).Brady & Matthews, Effects of Media Violence on Health-Related Outcomes Among Young Men, 160 Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Med. 341 (2006).Browne & Hamilton-Giachritsis, The Influence of Violent Media on Children and Adolescents: A Public-Health Approach, 365 Lancet 702 (2005).Bushman & Anderson, Violent Video Games and Hostile Expectations: A Test of the General Aggression Model, 28 Personality & Soc. Psychology Bull. 1679 (2002).Bushman & Anderson, Comfortably Numb: Desensitizing Effects of Violent Media on Helping Others, 20 Psychological Science: J. Am. Psychological Society 273 (2009).Bushman, Rothstein, & Anderson, Much Ado About Something: Violent Video Game Effects and a School of Red Herring: Reply to Ferguson and Kilburn, 136 Psychological Bull. 182 (2010).Calvert & Tan, Impact of Virtual Reality on Young Adults' Physiological Arousal and Aggressive Thoughts: Interaction Versus Observation, 15 J. Applied Developmental Psychology 125 (1994).Carnagey, Anderson, & Bartholow, Media Violence and Social Neuroscience: New Questions and New Opportunities, 16 Current Directions in Psychological Science 178 (2007).Carnagey & Anderson, Violent Video Game Exposure and Aggression: A Literature Review, 45 Minerva Psichiatrica 1 (2004).Carnagey & Anderson, The Effects of Reward and Punishment in Violent Video Games on Aggressive Affect, Cognition, and Behavior, 16 Psychological Science: J. Am. Psychological Society 882 (2005).Carnagey, Anderson, & Bushman, The Effect of Video Game Violence on Physiological Desensitization to Real-life Violence, 43 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 489 (2007).Chambers & Ascione, The Effects of Prosocial and Aggressive Videogames on Children's Donating and Helping, 148 J. Genetic Psychology: Research and Theory on Human Development 499 (1987).Chory & Cicchirillo, The Relationship Between Video Game Play and Trait Verbal Aggressiveness: An Application of the General Aggression Model, 24 Communications Research Reports 113 (2007).Cicchirillo & Chory-Assad, Effects of Affective Orientation and Video Game Play on Aggressive Thoughts and Behaviors, 49 J. Broadcasting & Electronic Media 435 (2005).Colwell & Payne, Negative Correlates of Computer Game Play in Adolescents, 91 British J. Psychology 295 (2000).Cooper & Mackie, Video Games and Aggression in Children, 16 J. Applied Soc. Psychology 726 (1986).Deselms & Altman, Immediate and Prolonged Effects of Videogame Violence, 33 J. Applied Soc. Psychology 1553 (2003).Dill & Dill, Video Game Violence: A Review of the Empirical Literature, 3 Aggression & Violent Behavior 407 (1998).Do&dsign;an, Video Games and Children: Violence in Video Games, 44 Yeni Symposium 161 (2006).Eastin, Video Game Violence and the Female Game Player: Self- and Opponent Gender Effects on Presence and Aggressive Thoughts, 32 Human Communication Research 351 (2006).Emes, Is Mr Pac Man Eating Our Children? A Review of the Effect of Video Games on Children, 42 Canadian J. Psychiatry 409 (1997).Farrar, Krcmar, & Nowak, Contextual Features of Violent Video Games, Mental Models, and Aggression, 56 J. Communication 387 (2006).Fischer, Kastenmüller, & Greitemeyer, Media Violence and the Self: The Impact of Personalized Gaming Characters in Aggressive Video Games on Aggressive Behavior, 46 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 192 (2010).Funk, Children's Exposure to Violent Video Games and Desensitization to Violence, 14 Child & Adolescent Psychiatric Clinics North Am. 387 (2005).Funk, Video Games, 16 Adolescent Med. Clinics 395 (2005).Funk, Baldacci, Pasold, & Baumgardner, Violence Exposure in Real-Life, Video Games, Television, Movies, and the Internet: Is There Desensitization? 27 J. Adolescence 23 (2004).Funk, Buchman, Jenks, & Bechtoldt, Playing Violent Video Games, Desensitization, and Moral Evaluation in Children, 24 J. Applied Developmental Psychology 413 (2003).Funk et al., Aggression and Psychopathology in Adolescents with a Preference for Violent Electronic Games, 28 Aggressive Behavior 134 (2002).Funk, Buchman, Jenks, & Bechtoldt, An Evidence-Based Approach to Examining the Impact of Playing Violent Video and Computer Games, SIMILE: Studies in Media & Information Literacy Educ., vol. 2, no. 4, p. 1 (Nov. 2002).Gentile & Stone, Violent Video Game Effects on Children and Adolescents: A Review of the Literature, 57 Minerva Pediatrica 337 (2005).Gentile et al., The Effects of Prosocial Video Games on Prosocial Behaviors: International Evidence From Correlational, Longitudinal, and Experimental Studies, 35 Personality & Soc. Psychology Bull. 752 (2009).Gentile, Lynch, Linder, & Walsh, The Effects of Violent Video Game Habits on Adolescent Hostility, Aggressive Behaviors, and School Performance, 27 J. Adolescence 5 (2004).Gentile & Gentile, Violent Video Games as Exemplary Teachers: A Conceptual Analysis, 37 J. Youth & Adolescence 127 (2008).Giumetti & Markey, Violent Video Games and Anger as Predictors of Aggression, 41 J. Research in Personality 1234 (2007).Graybill, Kirsch, & Esselman, Effects of Playing Violent Versus Nonviolent Video Games on the Aggressive Ideation of Aggressive and Nonaggressive Children, 15 Child Study J. 199 (1985).Grigoryan, Stepanyan, Stepanyan, & Agababyan, Influence of Aggressive Computer Games on the Brain Cortex Activity Level in Adolescents, 33 Human Physiology 34 (2007).Hastings et al., Young Children's Video/Computer Game Use: Relations With School Performance and Behavior, 30 Issues in Mental Health Nursing 638 (2009).Huesmann, Nailing the Coffin Shut on Doubts That Violent Video Games Stimulate Aggression: Comment on Anderson et al., 136 Psychological Bull. 179 (2010).Huesmann, The Impact of Electronic Media Violence: Scientific Theory and Research, 41 J. Adolescent Health S6 (2007).Huesmann & Taylor, The Role of Media Violence in Violent Behavior, 27 Annual Rev. Public Health 393 (2006).Hummer et al., Short-Term Violent Video Game Play by Adolescents Alters Prefrontal Activity During Cognitive Inhibition, 13 Media Psychology 136 (2010).Irwin & Gross, Cognitive Temp, Violent Video Games, and Aggressive Behavior in Young Boys, 10 J. Family Violence 337 (1995).Kirsh & Mounts, Violent Video Game Play impacts Facial Emotion Recognition, 33 Aggressive Behavior 353 (2007).Kirsh, Mounts, & Olczak, Violent Media Consumption and the Recognition of Dynamic Facial Expressions, 21 J. Interpersonal Violence 571 (2006).Kirsh, Olczak, & Mounts, Violent Video Games Induce an Affect Processing Bias, 7 Media Psychology 239 (2005).Kirsh, The Effects of Violent Video Games on Adolescents: The Overlooked Influence of Development, 8 Aggression & Violent Behavior 377 (2003).Kirsh, Seeing the World Through Mortal Kombat-Colored Glasses: Violent Video Games and the Development of a Short-term Hostile Attribution Bias, 5 Childhood 177 (1998).Konijn, Bijvank, & Bushman, I Wish I Were a Warrior: The Role of Wishful Identification in the Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggression in Adolescent Boys, 43 Developmental Psychology 1038 (2007).Krahé & Möller, Playing Violent Electronic Games, Hostile Attributional Style, and Aggression-related Norms in German Adolescents, 27 J. Adolescence 53 (2004).Krcmar, Farrar, & McGloin, The Effects of Video Game Realism on Attention, Retention and Aggressive Outcomes, 27 Computers in Human Behavior 432 (2011).Krcmar & Lachlan, Aggressive Outcomes and Videogame Play: The Role of Length of Play and the Mechanisms at Work, 12 Media Psychology 249 (2009).Krcmar & Farrar, Retaliatory Aggression and the Effects of Point of View and Blood in Violent Video Games, 12 Mass Communication & Society 115 (2009).Kronenberger et al., Media Violence Exposure in Aggressive and Control Adolescents: Differences in Self- and Parent-Reported Exposure to Violence on Television and in Video Games, 31 Aggressive Behavior 201 (2005).Kronenberger et al., Media Violence Exposure and Executive Functioning in Aggressive and Control Adolescents, 61 J. Clinical Psychology 725 (2005).Kuntsche, Hostility Among Adolescents in Switzerland? Multivariate Relations Between Excessive Media Use and Forms of Violence, 34 J. Adolescent Health 230 (2004).Lee, Peng, & Klein, Will the Experience of Playing a Violent Role in a Video Game Influence People's Judgments of Violent Crimes? 26 Computers in Human Behavior 1019 (2010).Lemmens & Bushman, The Appeal of Violent Video Games to Lower Educated Aggressive Adolescent Boys From Two Countries, 9 CyberPsychology & Behavior 638 (2006).Mathiak & Weber, Toward Brain Correlates of Natural Behavior: fMRI During VIolent Video Games, 27 Human Brain Mapping 948 (2006).Möller & Krahé, Exposure to Violent Video Games and Aggression in German Adolescents: A Longitudinal Analysis, 35 Aggressive Behavior 75 (2009).Nowak, Krcmar, & Farrar, The Causes and Consequences of Presence: Considering the Influence of Violent Video Games on Presence and Aggression, 17 Presence: Teleoperators & Virtual Environments 256 (2008).Olson et al., M-Rated Video Games and Aggressive or Problem Behavior Among Young Adolescents, 13 Applied Developmental Science 188 (2009).Panee & Ballard, High Versus Low Aggressive Priming During Video-Game Training: Effects on Violent Action During Game Play, Hostility, Heart Rate, and Blood Pressure, 32 J. Applied Soc. Psychology 2458 (2002).Persky & Blascovich, Immersive Virtual Environments Versus Traditional Platforms: Effects of Violent and Nonviolent Video Game Play, 10 Media Psychology 135 (2007).Persky & Blascovich, Immersive Virtual Video Game Play and Presence: Influences on Aggressive Feelings and Behavior, 17 Presence: Teleoperators & Virtual Environments 57 (2008).Polman, de Castro, & van Aken, Experimental Study of the Differential Effects of Playing Versus Watching Violent Video Games on Children's Aggressive Behavior, 34 Aggressive Behavior 256 (2008).Potera, Sex and Violence in the Media Influence Teen Behavior: Three Studies Show a Correlation, 109 American J. Nursing 20 (2009).Richmond & Wilson, Are Graphic Media Violence, Aggression, and Moral Disengagement Related? 15 Psychiatry, Psychology & Law 350 (2008).Schaefer & Harrison, The Effects of Violent Fantasy on Children's Aggressive Behavior, 41 Psychology & Educ. 35 (2004).Schmierbach, "Killing Spree": Exploring the Connection Between Competitive Game Play and Aggressive Cognition, 37 Communication Research 256 (2010).Sheese & Graziano, Deciding to Defect: The Effects of Video-Game Violence on Cooperative Behavior, 16 Psychological Science: J. Am. Psychological Society 354 (2005).Sherry, The Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggression. A Meta-Analysis, 27 Human Communication Research 409 (2001).Shibuya, Sakamoto, Ihori, & Yukawa, The Effects of the Presence and Contexts of Video Game Violence on Children: A Longitudinal Study in Japan, 39 Simulation & Gaming 528 (2008).Sigurdsson, Gudjonsson, Bragason, Kristjansdottir, & Sigfusdottir, The Role of Violent Cognition in the Relationship Between Personality and the Involvement in Violent Films and Computer Games, 41 Personality & Individual Differences 381 (2006).Silvern & Williamson, The Effects of Video Game Play on Young Children's Aggression, Fantasy, and Prosocial behavior, 8 J. Applied Developmental Psychology 453 (1987).Slater, Henry, Swaim, & Cardador, Vulnerable Teens, Vulnerable Times: How Sensation Seeking, Alienation, and Victimization Moderate the Violent Media Content--Aggressiveness Relation, 31 Communication Research 642 (2004).Slater, Henry, Swaim, & Anderson, Violent Media Content and Aggressiveness in Adolescents: A Downward Spiral Model, 30 Communication Research 713 (2003).Staude-Müller, Bliesener, & Luthman, Hostile and Hardened? An Experimental Study on (De-)sensitization to Violence and Suffering Through Playing Video Games, 67 Swiss J. Psychology 41 (2008).Steward & Follina, Informing Policies in Forensic Settings: A Review of Research Investigating the Effects of Exposure to Media Violence on Challenging/Offending Behaviour, 8 British J. Forensic Prac. 31 (2006).Swing & Anderson, The Unintended Negative Consequences of Exposure to Violent Video games, 12 Int. J. Cognitive Tech. 3 (2007).Tamborini et al., Violent Virtual Video Games and Hostile Thoughts, 48 J. Broadcasting & Electronic Media 335 (2004).Uhlmann & Swanson, Exposure to Violent Video Games Increases Automatic Aggressiveness, 27 J. Adolescence 41 (2004).Vaughan, Inadvertent Script Change and Increased Propensity for Violence: The Danger of Interactive Video Games, 34 Transactional Analysis J. 30 (2004).Wallenius & Punamäki, Digital Game Violence and Direct Aggression in Adolescence: A Longitudinal Study of the Roles of Sex, Age, and Parent-Child Communication, 29 J. Applied Developmental Psychology 286 (2008).Wallenius, Punamäki, & Rimpelä, Digital Game Playing and Direct and Indirect Aggression in Early Adolescence: The Roles of Age, Social Intelligence, and Parent-Child Communication, 36 J. Youth and Adolescence 325 (2007).Wang et al., Short Term Exposure to a Violent Video Game Induces Changes in Frontolimbic Circuitry in Adolescents, 3 Brain Imaging & Behavior 38 (2009).Weber, Ritterfeld, & Mathiak, Does Playing Violent Video Games Induce Aggression? Empirical Evidence of a Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Study, 8 Media Psychology 39 (2006).Wiegman & van Schie, Video Game Playing and its Relations With Aggressive and Prosocial Behaviour, 37 British J. Soc. Psychology 367 (1998).Williams, The Effects of Frustration, Violence, and Trait Hostility After Playing a Video Game, 12 Mass Communication & Society 291 (2009).Ybarra et al., Linkages Between Internet and Other Media Violence With Seriously Violent Behavior by Youth, 122 Pediatrics 929 (2008).BBensley & Van Eenwyk, Video Games and Real-Life Aggression: Review of the Literature, 29 J. Adolescent Health 244 (2001).Bösche, Violent Content Enhances Video Game Performance, 21 J. Media Psychology: Theories, Methods, and Applications 145 (2009).Colwell & Kato, Video Game Play in British and Japanese Adolescents, 36 Simulation & Gaming 518 (2005).Colwell & Kato, Investigation of the Relationship Between Social Isolation, Self-Esteem, Aggression and Computer Game Play in Japanese Adolescents, 6 Asian J. Soc. Psychology 149 (2003).Dominick, Videogames, Television Violence, and Aggression in Teenagers, 34 J. Communication 136 (1984).Ferguson, Blazing Angels or Resident Evil? Can Violent Video Games be a Force For Good? 14 Rev. Gen. Psychology 68 (2010).Ferguson, Violent Video Games: Dogma, Fear, Pseudoscience, 33 Skeptical Inquirer 38 (2009).Ferguson, The Good, The Bad and the Ugly: A Meta-analytic Review of Positive and Negative Effects of Violent Video Games, 78 Psychiatric Q. 309 (2007).Ferguson & Meehan, Saturday Night's Alright for Fighting: Antisocial Traits, Fighting, and Weapons Carrying in a Large Sample of Youth, 81 Psychiatric Q. 293 (2010).Ferguson et al., Violent Video Games and Aggression, 35 Crim. Justice & Behavior 311 (2008).Ferguson, Research on the Effects of Violent Video Games: A Critical Analysis, 3 Soc. & Personality Psychology Compass 351 (2009).Ferguson & Rueda, The Hitman Study: Violent Video Game Exposure Effects on Aggressive Behavior, Hostile Feelings, and Depression, 15 European Psychologist 99 (2010).Ferguson, San Miguel, & Hartley, A Multivariate Analysis of Youth Violence and Aggression: The Influence of Family, Peers, Depression, and Media Violence, 155 J. Pediatrics 904 (2009).Ferguson, Evidence for Publication Bias in Video Game Violence Effects Literature: A Meta-Analytic Review, 12 Aggression & Violent Behavior 470 (2007).Ferguson, The School Shooting/Violent Video Game Link: Causal Relationship or Moral Panic? 5 J. Investigative Psychology & Offender Profiling 25 (2008).Ferguson et al., Personality, Parental, and Media Influences on Aggressive Personality and Violent Crime in Young Adults, 17 J. Aggression, Maltreatment & Trauma 395 (2008).Ferguson & Kilburn, Much Ado About Nothing: The Misestimation and Overinterpretation of Violent Video Game Effects in Eastern and Western Nations: Comment on Anderson et al. (2010), 136 Psychological Bull. 174 (2010).Fleming & Rickwood, Effects of Violent Versus Nonviolent Video Games on Children's Arousal, Aggressive Mood, and Positive Mood, 31 J. Applied Soc. Psychology 2047 (2001).Griffiths, Violent Video Games and Aggression: A Review of the Literature, 4 Aggression & Violent Behavior 203 (1999).Griffiths, Video Games and Aggression, 10 The Psychologist 397 (1997).Ivory & Kalyanaraman, The Effects of Technological Advancement and Violent Content in Video Games on Players' Feelings of Presence, Involvement, Physiological Arousal, and Aggression, 57 J. Communication 532 (2007).Kestenbaum & Weinstein, Personality, Psychopathology, and Developmental Issues in Male Adolescent Video Game Use, 24 J. Am. Academy Child Psychology 329 (1985).Markey & Markey, Vulnerability to Violent Video Games: A Review and Integration of Personality Research, 14 Rev. Gen. Psychology 82 (2010).Markey & Scherer, An Examination of Psychoticism and Motion Capture Controls as Moderators of the Effects of Violent Video Games, 25 Computers in Human Behavior 407 (2009).Mitrofan, Paul, & Spencer, Is Aggression in Children With Behavioural and Emotional Difficulties Associated With Television Viewing and Video Game Playing? A Systematic Review, 35 Child: Care, Health & Development 5 (2009).Olson, Media Violence Research and Youth Violence Data: Why Do They Conflict? 28 Academic Psychiatry 144 (2004).Porter & Starcevic, Are Violent Video Games Harmful? 15 Australasian Psychiatry 422 (2007).Regenbogen, Herrmann, & Fehr, The Neural Processing of Voluntary Completed, Real and Virtual Violent and NonViolent Computer Game Scenarios Displaying Predefined Actions in Gamers and Nongamers, 5 Soc. Neuroscience 221 (2010).Scott, The Effect of Video Games on Feelings of Aggression, 129 J. Psychology 121 (1995).Sestir & Bartholow, Violent and Nonviolent Video Games Produce Opposing Effects on Aggressive and Prosocial Outcomes, 46 J. Experimental Soc. Psychology 934 (2010).Unsworth, Devilly, & Ward, The Effect of Playing Violent Video Games on Adolescents: Should Parents be Quaking in Their Boots? 13 Psychology, Crime & Law 383 (2007).Unsworth & Ward, Video Games and Aggressive Behavior. 36 Australian Psychologist 184 (2001).Williams & Skoric, Internet Fantasy Violence: A Test of Aggression in an Online Game, 72 Communication Monographs 217 (2005).Winkel, Novak, & Hopson, Personality Factors, Subject Gender, and the Effects of Aggressive Video Games on Aggression in Adolescents, 21 J. Research in Personality 211 (1987).FOOTNOTESThe Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970 (FCRA) requires consumer reporting agencies to "follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of" consumer reports, 15 U. S. C. §1681e(b), and imposes liability on "[a]ny person who willfully fails to comply with any requirement [of the Act] with respect to any" individual, §1681n(a).          Petitioner Spokeo, Inc., an alleged consumer reporting agency, operates a "people search engine," which searches a wide spectrum of databases to gather and provide personal information about individuals to a variety of users, including employers wanting to evaluate prospective employees. After respondent Thomas Robins discovered that his Spokeo-generated profile contained inaccurate information, he filed a federal class-action complaint against Spokeo, alleging that the company willfully failed to comply with the FCRA's requirements.          The District Court dismissed Robins' complaint, holding that he had not properly pleaded injury in fact as required by Article III. The Ninth Circuit reversed. Based on Robins' allegation that "Spokeo violated his statutory rights" and the fact that Robins' "personal interests in the handling of his credit information are individualized," the court held that Robins had adequately alleged an injury in fact.Held: Because the Ninth Circuit failed to consider both aspects of the injury-in-fact requirement, its Article III standing analysis was incomplete. Pp. 5-11.     (a) A plaintiff invoking federal jurisdiction bears the burden of establishing the "irreducible constitutional minimum" of standing by demonstrating (1) an injury in fact, (2) fairly traceable to the challenged conduct of the defendant, and (3) likely to be redressed by a favorable judicial decision. Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 560-561. Pp. 5-6.     (b) As relevant here, the injury-in-fact requirement requires a plaintiff to show that he or she suffered "an invasion of a legally protected interest" that is "concrete and particularized" and "actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical." Lujan, supra, at 560. Pp. 7-11.          (1) The Ninth Circuit's injury-in-fact analysis elided the independent "concreteness" requirement. Both observations it made concerned only "particularization," i.e., the requirement that an injury "affect the plaintiff in a personal and individual way," Lujan, supra, at 560, n. 1, but an injury in fact must be both concrete and particularized, see, e.g., Susan B. Anthony List v. Driehaus, 573 U. S. ___, ___. Concreteness is quite different from particularization and requires an injury to be "de facto," that is, to actually exist. Pp. 7-8.          (2) The Ninth Circuit also failed to address whether the alleged procedural violations entail a degree of risk sufficient to meet the concreteness requirement. A "concrete" injury need not be a "tangible" injury. See, e.g., Pleasant Grove City v. Summum, 555 U. S. 460. To determine whether an intangible harm constitutes injury in fact, both history and the judgment of Congress are instructive. Congress is well positioned to identify intangible harms that meet minimum Article III requirements, but a plaintiff does not automatically satisfy the injury-in-fact requirement whenever a statute grants a right and purports to authorize a suit to vindicate it. Article III standing requires a concrete injury even in the context of a statutory violation. This does not mean, however, that the risk of real harm cannot satisfy that requirement. See, e.g., Clapper v. Amnesty Int'l USA, 568 U. S. ____. The violation of a procedural right granted by statute can be sufficient in some circumstances to constitute injury in fact; in such a case, a plaintiff need not allege any additional harm beyond the one identified by Congress, see Federal Election Comm'n v. Akins, 524 U. S. 11, 20-25. This Court takes no position on the correctness of the Ninth Circuit's ultimate conclusion, but these general principles demonstrate two things: that Congress plainly sought to curb the dissemination of false information by adopting procedures designed to decrease that risk and that Robins cannot satisfy the demands of Article III by alleging a bare procedural violation. Pp. 8-11.742 F. 3d 409, vacated and remanded.     Alito, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Kennedy, Thomas, Breyer, and Kagan, JJ., joined. Thomas, J., filed a concurring opinion. Ginsburg, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Sotomayor, J., joined.Opinion of the Court?578 U. S. ____ (2016)NOTICE:?This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports.?Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.No. 13-1339SPOKEO, INC., PETITIONER v. THOMAS ROBINSon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[May 16, 2016]     Justice Alito delivered the opinion of the Court.     This case presents the question whether respondent Robins has standing to maintain an action in federal court against petitioner Spokeo under the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970 (FCRA or Act), 84 Stat. 1127, as amended, 15 U. S. C. §1681 et seq.     Spokeo operates a "people search engine." If an individual visits Spokeo's Web site and inputs a person's name, a phone number, or an e-mail address, Spokeo conducts a computerized search in a wide variety of databases and provides information about the subject of the search. Spokeo performed such a search for information about Robins, and some of the information it gathered and then disseminated was incorrect. When Robins learned of these inaccuracies, he filed a complaint on his own behalf and on behalf of a class of similarly situated individuals.     The District Court dismissed Robins' complaint for lack of standing, but a panel of the Ninth Circuit reversed. The Ninth Circuit noted, first, that Robins had alleged that "Spokeo violated his statutory rights, not just the statutory rights of other people," and, second, that "Robins's personal interests in the handling of his credit information are individualized rather than collective." 742 F. 3d 409, 413 (2014). Based on these two observations, the Ninth Circuit held that Robins had adequately alleged injury in fact, a requirement for standing under Article III of the Constitution. Id., at 413-414.     This analysis was incomplete. As we have explained in our prior opinions, the injury-in-fact requirement requires a plaintiff to allege an injury that is both "concrete and particularized." Friends of the Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC), Inc., 528 U. S. 167, 180-181 (2000) (emphasis added). The Ninth Circuit's analysis focused on the second characteristic (particularity), but it overlooked the first (concreteness). We therefore vacate the decision below and remand for the Ninth Circuit to consider both aspects of the injury-in-fact requirement.I     The FCRA seeks to ensure "fair and accurate credit reporting." §1681(a)(1). To achieve this end, the Act regulates the creation and the use of "consumer report[s]"1 by "consumer reporting agenc[ies]"2 for certain specified purposes, including credit transactions, insurance, licensing, consumer-initiated business transactions, and employment. See §§1681a(d)(1)(A)-(C); §1681b. Enacted long before the advent of the Internet, the FCRA applies to companies that regularly disseminate information bearing on an individual's "credit worthiness, credit standing, credit capacity, character, general reputation, personal characteristics, or mode of living." §1681a(d)(1).     The FCRA imposes a host of requirements concerning the creation and use of consumer reports. As relevant here, the Act requires consumer reporting agencies to "follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of" consumer reports, §1681e(b); to notify providers and users of consumer information of their responsibilities under the Act, §1681e(d); to limit the circumstances in which such agencies provide consumer reports "for employment purposes," §1681b(b)(1); and to post toll-free numbers for consumers to request reports, §1681j(a).     The Act also provides that "[a]ny person who willfully fails to comply with any requirement [of the Act] with respect to any [individual3] is liable to that [individual]" for, among other things, either "actual damages" or statutory damages of $100 to $1,000 per violation, costs of the action and attorney's fees, and possibly punitive damages. §1681n(a).     Spokeo is alleged to qualify as a "consumer reporting agency" under the FCRA.4 It operates a Web site that allows users to search for information about other individuals by name, e-mail address, or phone number. In response to an inquiry submitted online, Spokeo searches a wide spectrum of databases and gathers and provides information such as the individual's address, phone number, marital status, approximate age, occupation, hobbies, finances, shopping habits, and musical preferences. App. 7, 10-11. According to Robins, Spokeo markets its services to a variety of users, including not only "employers who want to evaluate prospective employees," but also "those who want to investigate prospective romantic partners or seek other personal information." Brief for Respondent 7. Persons wishing to perform a Spokeo search need not disclose their identities, and much information is available for free.     At some point in time, someone (Robins' complaint does not specify who) made a Spokeo search request for information about Robins, and Spokeo trawled its sources and generated a profile. By some means not detailed in Robins' complaint, he became aware of the contents of that profile and discovered that it contained inaccurate information. His profile, he asserts, states that he is married, has children, is in his 50's, has a job, is relatively affluent, and holds a graduate degree. App. 14. According to Robins' complaint, all of this information is incorrect.     Robins filed a class-action complaint in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, claiming, among other things, that Spokeo willfully failed to comply with the FCRA requirements enumerated above.     The District Court initially denied Spokeo's motion to dismiss the complaint for lack of jurisdiction, but later reconsidered and dismissed the complaint with prejudice. App. to Pet. for Cert. 23a. The court found that Robins had not "properly pled" an injury in fact, as required by Article III. Ibid.     The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed. Relying on Circuit precedent,5 the court began by stating that "the violation of a statutory right is usually a sufficient injury in fact to confer standing." 742 F. 3d, at 412. The court recognized that "the Constitution limits the power of Congress to confer standing." Id., at 413. But the court held that those limits were honored in this case because Robins alleged that "Spokeo violated his statutory rights, not just the statutory rights of other people," and because his "personal interests in the handling of his credit information are individualized rather than collective." Ibid. (emphasis in original). The court thus concluded that Robins' "alleged violations of [his] statutory rights [were] sufficient to satisfy the injury-in-fact requirement of Article III." Id., at 413-414.     We granted certiorari. 575 U. S. ___ (2015).IIA     The Constitution confers limited authority on each branch of the Federal Government. It vests Congress with enumerated "legislative Powers," Art. I, §1; it confers upon the President "[t]he executive Power," Art. II, §1, cl. 1; and it endows the federal courts with "[t]he judicial Power of the United States," Art. III, §1. In order to remain faithful to this tripartite structure, the power of the Federal Judiciary may not be permitted to intrude upon the powers given to the other branches. See DaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno, 547 U. S. 332, 341 (2006); Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 559-560 (1992).     Although the Constitution does not fully explain what is meant by "[t]he judicial Power of the United States," Art. III, § 1, it does specify that this power extends only to "Cases" and "Controversies," Art. III, §2. And " '[n]o principle is more fundamental to the judiciary's proper role in our system of government than the constitutional limitation of federal-court jurisdiction to actual cases or controversies.' " Raines v. Byrd, 521 U. S. 811, 818 (1997).     Standing to sue is a doctrine rooted in the traditional understanding of a case or controversy. The doctrine developed in our case law to ensure that federal courts do not exceed their authority as it has been traditionally understood. See id., at 820. The doctrine limits the category of litigants empowered to maintain a lawsuit in federal court to seek redress for a legal wrong. See Valley Forge Christian College v. Americans United for Separation of Church and State, Inc., 454 U. S. 464, 473 (1982); Warth v. Seldin, 422 U. S. 490, 498-499 (1975). In this way, "[t]he law of Article III standing . . . serves to prevent the judicial process from being used to usurp the powers of the political branches," Clapper v. Amnesty Int'l USA, 568 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 9); Lujan, supra, at 576-577, and confines the federal courts to a properly judicial role, see Warth, supra, at 498.     Our cases have established that the "irreducible constitutional minimum" of standing consists of three elements. Lujan, 504 U. S., at 560. The plaintiff must have (1) suffered an injury in fact, (2) that is fairly traceable to the challenged conduct of the defendant, and (3) that is likely to be redressed by a favorable judicial decision. Id., at 560-561; Friends of the Earth, Inc., 528 U. S., at 180-181. The plaintiff, as the party invoking federal jurisdiction, bears the burden of establishing these elements. FW/PBS, Inc. v. Dallas, 493 U. S. 215, 231 (1990). Where, as here, a case is at the pleading stage, the plaintiff must "clearly . . . allege facts demonstrating" each element. Warth, supra, at 518.6B     This case primarily concerns injury in fact, the "[f ]irst and foremost" of standing's three elements. Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment, 523 U. S. 83, 103 (1998). Injury in fact is a constitutional requirement, and "[i]t is settled that Congress cannot erase Article III's standing requirements by statutorily granting the right to sue to a plaintiff who would not otherwise have standing." Raines, supra, at 820, n. 3; see Summers v. Earth Island Institute, 555 U. S. 488, 497 (2009); Gladstone, Realtors v. Village of Bellwood, 441 U. S. 91, 100 (1979) ("In no event . . . may Congress abrogate the Art. III minima").     To establish injury in fact, a plaintiff must show that he or she suffered "an invasion of a legally protected interest" that is "concrete and particularized" and "actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical." Lujan, 504 U. S., at 560 (internal quotation marks omitted). We discuss the particularization and concreteness requirements below.1     For an injury to be "particularized," it "must affect the plaintiff in a personal and individual way." Ibid., n. 1; see also, e.g., Cuno, supra, at 342 (" 'plaintiff must allege personal injury' "); Whitmore v. Arkansas, 495 U. S. 149, 155 (1990) (" 'distinct' "); Allen v. Wright, 468 U. S. 737, 751 (1984) ("personal"); Valley Forge, supra, at 472 (standing requires that the plaintiff " 'personally has suffered some actual or threatened injury' "); United States v. Richardson, 418 U. S. 166, 177 (1974) (not "undifferentiated"); Public Citizen, Inc. v. National Hwy. Traffic Safety Admin., 489 F. 3d 1279, 1292-1293 (CADC 2007) (collecting cases).7     Particularization is necessary to establish injury in fact, but it is not sufficient. An injury in fact must also be "concrete." Under the Ninth Circuit's analysis, however, that independent requirement was elided. As previously noted, the Ninth Circuit concluded that Robins' complaint alleges "concrete, de facto" injuries for essentially two reasons. 742 F. 3d, at 413. First, the court noted that Robins "alleges that Spokeo violated his statutory rights, not just the statutory rights of other people." Ibid. Second, the court wrote that "Robins's personal interests in the handling of his credit information are individualized rather than collective." Ibid. (emphasis added). Both of these observations concern particularization, not concreteness. We have made it clear time and time again that an injury in fact must be both concrete and particularized. See, e.g., Susan B. Anthony List v. Driehaus, 573 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 8); Summers, supra, at 493; Sprint Communications Co. v. APCC Services, Inc., 554 U. S. 269, 274 (2008); Massachusetts v. EPA, 549 U. S. 497, 517 (2007).     A "concrete" injury must be "de facto"; that is, it must actually exist. See Black's Law Dictionary 479 (9th ed. 2009). When we have used the adjective "concrete," we have meant to convey the usual meaning of the term--"real," and not "abstract." Webster's Third New International Dictionary 472 (1971); Random House Dictionary of the English Language 305 (1967). Concreteness, therefore, is quite different from particularization.2     "Concrete" is not, however, necessarily synonymous with "tangible." Although tangible injuries are perhaps easier to recognize, we have confirmed in many of our previous cases that intangible injuries can nevertheless be concrete. See, e.g., Pleasant Grove City v. Summum, 555 U. S. 460 (2009) (free speech); Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah, 508 U. S. 520 (1993) (free exercise).     In determining whether an intangible harm constitutes injury in fact, both history and the judgment of Congress play important roles. Because the doctrine of standing derives from the case-or-controversy requirement, and because that requirement in turn is grounded in historical practice, it is instructive to consider whether an alleged intangible harm has a close relationship to a harm that has traditionally been regarded as providing a basis for a lawsuit in English or American courts. See Vermont Agency of Natural Resources v. United States ex rel. Stevens, 529 U. S. 765, 775-777 (2000). In addition, because Congress is well positioned to identify intangible harms that meet minimum Article III requirements, its judgment is also instructive and important. Thus, we said in Lujan that Congress may "elevat[e] to the status of legally cognizable injuries concrete, de facto injuries that were previously inadequate in law." 504 U. S., at 578. Similarly, Justice Kennedy's concurrence in that case explained that "Congress has the power to define injuries and articulate chains of causation that will give rise to a case or controversy where none existed before." Id., at 580 (opinion concurring in part and concurring in judgment).     Congress' role in identifying and elevating intangible harms does not mean that a plaintiff automatically satisfies the injury-in-fact requirement whenever a statute grants a person a statutory right and purports to authorize that person to sue to vindicate that right. Article III standing requires a concrete injury even in the context of a statutory violation. For that reason, Robins could not, for example, allege a bare procedural violation, divorced from any concrete harm, and satisfy the injury-in-fact requirement of Article III. See Summers, 555 U. S., at 496 ("[D]eprivation of a procedural right without some concrete interest that is affected by the deprivation . . . is insufficient to create Article III standing"); see also Lujan, supra, at 572.     This does not mean, however, that the risk of real harm cannot satisfy the requirement of concreteness. See, e.g., Clapper v. Amnesty Int'l USA, 568 U. S. ____. For example, the law has long permitted recovery by certain tort victims even if their harms may be difficult to prove or measure. See, e.g., Restatement (First) of Torts §§569 (libel), 570 (slander per se) (1938). Just as the common law permitted suit in such instances, the violation of a procedural right granted by statute can be sufficient in some circumstances to constitute injury in fact. In other words, a plaintiff in such a case need not allege any additional harm beyond the one Congress has identified. See Federal Election Comm'n v. Akins, 524 U. S. 11, 20-25 (1998) (confirming that a group of voters' "inability to obtain information" that Congress had decided to make public is a sufficient injury in fact to satisfy Article III); Public Citizen v. Department of Justice, 491 U. S. 440, 449 (1989) (holding that two advocacy organizations' failure to obtain information subject to disclosure under the Federal Advisory Committee Act "constitutes a sufficiently distinct injury to provide standing to sue").     In the context of this particular case, these general principles tell us two things: On the one hand, Congress plainly sought to curb the dissemination of false information by adopting procedures designed to decrease that risk. On the other hand, Robins cannot satisfy the demands of Article III by alleging a bare procedural violation. A violation of one of the FCRA's procedural requirements may result in no harm. For example, even if a consumer reporting agency fails to provide the required notice to a user of the agency's consumer information, that information regardless may be entirely accurate. In addition, not all inaccuracies cause harm or present any material risk of harm. An example that comes readily to mind is an incorrect zip code. It is difficult to imagine how the dissemination of an incorrect zip code, without more, could work any concrete harm.8     Because the Ninth Circuit failed to fully appreciate the distinction between concreteness and particularization, its standing analysis was incomplete. It did not address the question framed by our discussion, namely, whether the particular procedural violations alleged in this case entail a degree of risk sufficient to meet the concreteness requirement. We take no position as to whether the Ninth Circuit's ultimate conclusion--that Robins adequately alleged an injury in fact--was correct.*??*??*     The judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated, and the case is remanded for proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.Thomas, J., concurring?578 U. S. ____ (2016)No. 13-1339SPOKEO, INC., PETITIONER v. THOMAS ROBINSon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[May 16, 2016]     Justice Thomas, concurring.     The Court vacates and remands to have the Court of Appeals determine "whether the particular procedural violations alleged in this case entail a degree of risk sufficient to meet the concreteness requirement." Ante, at 11. In defining what constitutes a concrete injury, the Court explains that "concrete" means " 'real,' " and "not 'abstract,' " but is not "necessarily synonymous with 'tangible.' " Ante, at 8-9.     I join the Court's opinion. I write separately to explain how, in my view, the injury-in-fact requirement applies to different types of rights. The judicial power of common-law courts was historically limited depending on the nature of the plaintiff's suit. Common-law courts more readily entertained suits from private plaintiffs who alleged a violation of their own rights, in contrast to private plaintiffs who asserted claims vindicating public rights. Those limitations persist in modern standing doctrine.IA     Standing doctrine limits the "judicial power" to " 'cases and controversies of the sort traditionally amenable to, and resolved by, the judicial process.' " Vermont Agency of Natural Resources v. United States ex rel. Stevens, 529 U. S. 765, 774 (2000) (quoting Steel Co. v. Citizens for a Better Environment, 523 U. S. 83, 102 (1998)). To understand the limits that standing imposes on "the judicial Power," therefore, we must "refer directly to the traditional, fundamental limitations upon the powers of commonlaw courts." Honig v. Doe, 484 U. S. 305, 340 (1988) (Scalia, J., dissenting). These limitations preserve separation of powers by preventing the judiciary's entanglement in disputes that are primarily political in nature. This concern is generally absent when a private plaintiff seeks to enforce only his personal rights against another private party.     Common-law courts imposed different limitations on a plaintiff's right to bring suit depending on the type of right the plaintiff sought to vindicate. Historically, common-law courts possessed broad power to adjudicate suits involving the alleged violation of private rights, even when plaintiffs alleged only the violation of those rights and nothing more. "Private rights" are rights "belonging to individuals, considered as individuals." 3 W. Blackstone, Commentaries *2 (hereinafter Blackstone). "Private rights" have traditionally included rights of personal security (including security of reputation), property rights, and contract rights. See 1 id., at *130-*139; Woolhander & Nelson, Does History Defeat Standing Doctrine?, 102 Mich. L. Rev. 689, 693 (2004). In a suit for the violation of a private right, courts historically presumed that the plaintiff suffered a de facto injury merely from having his personal, legal rights invaded. Thus, when one man placed his foot on another's property, the property owner needed to show nothing more to establish a traditional case or controversy. See Entick v. Carrington, 2 Wils. K. B. 275, 291, 95 Eng. Rep. 807, 817 (1765). Many traditional remedies for private-rights causes of action--such as for trespass, infringement of intellectual property, and unjust enrichment--are not contingent on a plaintiff's allegation of damages beyond the violation of his private legal right. See Brief for Restitution and Remedies Scholars as Amici Curiae 6-18; see also Webb v. Portland Mfg. Co., 29 F. Cas. 506, 508 (No. 17,322) (Me. 1838) (stating that a legal injury "imports damage in the nature of it" (internal quotation marks omitted)).     Common-law courts, however, have required a further showing of injury for violations of "public rights"--rights that involve duties owed "to the whole community, considered as a community, in its social aggregate capacity." 4 Blackstone *5. Such rights include "free navigation of waterways, passage on public highways, and general compliance with regulatory law." Woolhander & Nelson, 102 Mich. L. Rev., at 693. Generally, only the government had the authority to vindicate a harm borne by the public at large, such as the violation of the criminal laws. See id., at 695-700. Even in limited cases where private plaintiffs could bring a claim for the violation of public rights, they had to allege that the violation caused them "some extraordinary damage, beyond the rest of the [community]." 3 Blackstone *220 (discussing nuisance); see also Commonwealth v. Webb, 27 Va. 726, 729 (Gen. Ct. 1828).1 An action to redress a public nuisance, for example, was historically considered an action to vindicate the violation of a public right at common law, lest "every subject in the kingdom" be able to "harass the offender with separate actions." 3 Blackstone *219; see also 4 id., at *167 (same). But if the plaintiff could allege "special damage" as the result of a nuisance, the suit could proceed. The existence of special, individualized damage had the effect of creating a private action for compensatory relief to an otherwise public-rights claim. See 3 id., at *220. Similarly, a plaintiff had to allege individual damage in disputes over the use of public lands. E.g., Robert Marys's Case, 9 Co. Rep. 111b, 112b, 77 Eng. Rep. 895, 898-899 (K. B. 1613) (commoner must establish not only injuria [legal injury] but also damnum [damage] to challenge another's overgrazing on the commons).B     These differences between legal claims brought by private plaintiffs for the violation of public and private rights underlie modern standing doctrine and explain the Court's description of the injury-in-fact requirement. "Injury in fact" is the first of three "irreducible" requirements for Article III standing. Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 560 (1992). The injury-in-fact requirement often stymies a private plaintiff's attempt to vindicate the infringement of public rights. The Court has said time and again that, when a plaintiff seeks to vindicate a public right, the plaintiff must allege that he has suffered a "concrete" injury particular to himself. See Schlesinger v. Reservists Comm. to Stop the War, 418 U. S. 208, 221-223 (1974) (explaining this where plaintiffs sought to enforce the Incompatibility Clause, Art. I, §6, cl. 2, against Members of Congress holding reserve commissions in the Armed Forces); see also Lujan, supra, at 572-573 (evaluating standing where plaintiffs sought to enforce the Endangered Species Act); Friends of the Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC), Inc., 528 U. S. 167, 183-184 (2000) (Clean Water Act). This requirement applies with special force when a plaintiff files suit to require an executive agency to "follow the law"; at that point, the citizen must prove that he "has sustained or is immediately in danger of sustaining a direct injury as a result of that [challenged] action and it is not sufficient that he has merely a general interest common to all members of the public." Ex parte Levitt, 302 U. S. 633, 634 (1937) ( per curiam). Thus, in a case where private plaintiffs sought to compel the U. S. Forest Service to follow certain procedures when it regulated "small fire-rehabilitation and timber-salvage projects," we held that "deprivation of a procedural right without some concrete interest that is affected by the deprivation . . . is insufficient to create Article III standing," even if "accorded by Congress." Summers v. Earth Island Institute, 555 U. S. 488, 490, 496-497 (2009).     But the concrete-harm requirement does not apply as rigorously when a private plaintiff seeks to vindicate his own private rights. Our contemporary decisions have not required a plaintiff to assert an actual injury beyond the violation of his personal legal rights to satisfy the "injury-in-fact" requirement. See, e.g., Carey v. Piphus, 435 U. S. 247, 266 (1978) (holding that nominal damages are appropriate when a plaintiff's constitutional rights have been infringed but he cannot show further injury).     The separation-of-powers concerns underlying our public-rights decisions are not implicated when private individuals sue to redress violations of their own private rights. But, when they are implicated, standing doctrine keeps courts out of political disputes by denying private litigants the right to test the abstract legality of government action. See Schlesinger, supra, at 222. And by limiting Congress' ability to delegate law enforcement authority to private plaintiffs and the courts, standing doctrine preserves executive discretion. See Lujan, supra, at 577 (" 'To permit Congress to convert the undifferentiated public interest in executive officers' compliance with the law into an 'individual right' vindicable in the courts is to permit Congress to transfer from the President to the courts the Chief Executive's most important constitutional duty, to 'take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed' "). But where one private party has alleged that another private party violated his private rights, there is generally no danger that the private party's suit is an impermissible attempt to police the activity of the political branches or, more broadly, that the legislative branch has impermissibly delegated law enforcement authority from the executive to a private individual. See Hessick, Standing, Injury in Fact, and Private Rights, 93 Cornell L. Rev. 275, 317-321 (2008).C     When Congress creates new private causes of action to vindicate private or public rights, these Article III principles circumscribe federal courts' power to adjudicate a suit alleging the violation of those new legal rights. Congress can create new private rights and authorize private plaintiffs to sue based simply on the violation of those private rights. See Warth v. Seldin, 422 U. S. 490, 500 (1975). A plaintiff seeking to vindicate a statutorily created private right need not allege actual harm beyond the invasion of that private right. See Havens Realty Corp. v. Coleman, 455 U. S. 363, 373-374 (1982) (recognizing standing for a violation of the Fair Housing Act); Tennessee Elec. Power Co. v. TVA, 306 U. S. 118, 137-138 (1939) (recognizing that standing can exist where "the right invaded is a legal right,--one of property, one arising out of contract, one protected against tortious invasion, or one founded on a statute which confers a privilege"). A plaintiff seeking to vindicate a public right embodied in a federal statute, however, must demonstrate that the violation of that public right has caused him a concrete, individual harm distinct from the general population. See Lujan, supra, at 578 (noting that, whatever the scope of Congress' power to create new legal rights, "it is clear that in suits against the Government, at least, the concrete injury requirement must remain"). Thus, Congress cannot authorize private plaintiffs to enforce public rights in their own names, absent some showing that the plaintiff has suffered a concrete harm particular to him.II     Given these principles, I agree with the Court's decision to vacate and remand. The Fair Credit Reporting Act creates a series of regulatory duties. Robins has no standing to sue Spokeo, in his own name, for violations of the duties that Spokeo owes to the public collectively, absent some showing that he has suffered concrete and particular harm. See supra, at 4-5. These consumer protection requirements include, for example, the requirement to "post a toll-free telephone number on [Spokeo's] website through which consumers can request free annual file disclosures." App. 23, First Amended Complaint ¶74; see 15 U. S. C. §1681j; 16 CFR §610.3(a)(1) (2010).     But a remand is required because one claim in Robins' complaint rests on a statutory provision that could arguably establish a private cause of action to vindicate the violation of a privately held right. Section 1681e(b) requires Robins to "follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of the information concerning the individual about whom the report relates." §1681e(b) (emphasis added). If Congress has created a private duty owed personally to Robins to protect his information, then the violation of the legal duty suffices for Article III injury in fact. If that provision, however, vests any and all consumers with the power to police the "reasonable procedures" of Spokeo, without more, then Robins has no standing to sue for its violation absent an allegation that he has suffered individualized harm. On remand, the Court of Appeals can consider the nature of this claim.Ginsburg, J., dissenting?578 U. S. ____ (2016)No. 13-1339SPOKEO, INC., PETITIONER v. THOMAS ROBINSon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[May 16, 2016]     Justice Ginsburg, with whom Justice Sotomayor joins, dissenting.     In the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970 (FCRA or Act), 15 U. S. C. §1681 et seq., Congress required consumer reporting agencies, whenever preparing a consumer report, to "follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of the information concerning the individual about whom the report relates." §1681e(b). To promote adherence to the Act's procedural requirements, Congress granted adversely affected consumers a right to sue noncomplying reporting agencies. §1681n (willful noncompliance); §1681o (negligent noncompliance).1 Thomas Robins instituted suit against Spokeo, Inc., alleging that Spokeo was a reporting agency governed by the FCRA, and that Spokeo maintains on its Web site an inaccurate consumer report about Robins. App. 13.     In particular, Robins alleged that Spokeo posted "a picture . . . purport[ing] to be an image of Robins [that] was not in fact [of him]," and incorrectly reported that Robins "was in his 50s, . . . married, . . . employed in a professional or technical field, and . . . has children." Id., at 14. Robins further alleged that Spokeo's profile of him continues to misrepresent "that he has a graduate degree, that his economic health is 'Very Strong[,]' and that his wealth level [is in] the 'Top 10%.' " Ibid. Spokeo displayed that erroneous information, Robins asserts, when he was "out of work" and "actively seeking employment." Ibid. Because of the misinformation, Robins stated, he encountered "[imminent and ongoing] actual harm to [his] employment prospects." Ibid.2 As Robins elaborated on brief, Spokeo's report made him appear overqualified for jobs he might have gained, expectant of a higher salary than employers would be willing to pay, and less mobile because of family responsibilities. See Brief for Respondent 44.     I agree with much of the Court's opinion. Robins, the Court holds, meets the particularity requirement for standing under Article III. See ante, at 8, 11 (remanding only for concreteness inquiry). The Court acknowledges that Congress has the authority to confer rights and delineate claims for relief where none existed before. Ante, at 9; see Federal Election Comm'n v. Akins, 524 U. S. 11, 19-20 (1998) (holding that inability to procure information to which Congress has created a right in the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 qualifies as concrete injury satisfying Article III's standing requirement); Public Citizen v. Department of Justice, 491 U. S. 440, 449 (1989) (holding that plaintiff advocacy organizations' inability to obtain information that Congress made subject to disclosure under the Federal Advisory Committee Act "constitutes a sufficiently distinct injury to provide standing to sue"); Havens Realty Corp. v. Coleman, 455 U. S. 363, 373 (1982) (identifying, as Article III injury, violation of plaintiff's right, secured by the Fair Housing Act, to "truthful information concerning the availability of housing").3 Congress' connection of procedural requirements to the prevention of a substantive harm, the Court appears to agree, is "instructive and important." Ante, at 9; see Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 580 (1992) (Kennedy, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) ("As Government programs and policies become more complex and far reaching, we must be sensitive to the articulation of new rights of action . . . ."); Brief for Restitution and Remedies Scholars et al. as Amici Curiae 3 ("Congress cannot authorize individual plaintiffs to enforce generalized rights that belong to the whole public. But Congress can create new individual rights, and it can enact effective remedies for those rights."). See generally Sunstein, Informational Regulation and Informational Standing: Akins and Beyond, 147 U. Pa. L. Rev. 613 (1999).     I part ways with the Court, however, on the necessity of a remand to determine whether Robins' particularized injury was "concrete." See ante, at 11. Judged by what we have said about "concreteness," Robins' allegations carry him across the threshold. The Court's opinion observes that time and again, our decisions have coupled the words "concrete and particularized." Ante, at 8 (citing as examples, Susan B. Anthony List v. Driehaus, 573 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 8); Summers v. Earth Island Institute, 555 U. S. 488, 493 (2009); Sprint Communications Co. v. APCC Services, Inc., 554 U. S. 269, 274 (2008); Massachusetts v. EPA, 549 U. S. 497, 517 (2007)). True, but true too, in the four cases cited by the Court, and many others, opinions do not discuss the separate offices of the terms "concrete" and "particularized."     Inspection of the Court's decisions suggests that the particularity requirement bars complaints raising generalized grievances, seeking relief that no more benefits the plaintiff than it does the public at large. See, e.g., Lujan, 504 U. S., at 573-574 (a plaintiff "seeking relief that no more directly and tangibly benefits him than it does the public at large does not state an Article III case or controversy" (punctuation omitted)); Perkins v. Lukens Steel Co., 310 U. S. 113, 125 (1940) (plaintiffs lack standing because they failed to show injury to "a particular right of their own, as distinguished from the public's interest in the administration of the law"). Robins' claim does not present a question of that character. He seeks redress, not for harm to the citizenry, but for Spokeo's spread of misinformation specifically about him.     Concreteness as a discrete requirement for standing, the Court's decisions indicate, refers to the reality of an injury, harm that is real, not abstract, but not necessarily tangible. See ante, at 8-9; ante, at 1 (Thomas, J., concurring). Illustrative opinions include Akins, 524 U. S., at 20 ("[C]ourts will not pass upon abstract, intellectual problems, but adjudicate concrete, living contests between adversaries." (internal quotation marks and alterations omitted)); Diamond v. Charles, 476 U. S. 54, 67 (1986) (plaintiff's "abstract concern does not substitute for the concrete injury required by Art[icle] III" (internal quotation marks and ellipsis omitted)); Los Angeles v. Lyons, 461 U. S. 95, 101 (1983) ("Plaintiffs must demonstrate a personal stake in the outcome . . . . Abstract injury is not enough." (internal quotation marks omitted)); Babbitt v. Farm Workers, 442 U. S. 289, 297-298 (1979) ("The difference between an abstract question and a 'case or controversy' is one of degree, of course, and is not discernable by any precise test. The basic inquiry is whether the conflicting contentions of the parties present a real, substantial controversy between parties having adverse legal interests, a dispute definite and concrete, not hypothetical or abstract." (citation, some internal quotation marks, and ellipsis omitted)); Simon v. Eastern Ky. Welfare Rights Organization, 426 U. S. 26, 40 (1976) ("organization's abstract concern . . . does not substitute for the concrete injury required by Art. III"); California Bankers Assn. v. Shultz, 416 U. S. 21, 69 (1974) ("There must be . . . concrete adverseness"; "[a]bstract injury is not enough." (internal quotation marks omitted)); Railway Mail Assn. v. Corsi, 326 U. S. 88, 93 (1945) (controversy must be "definite and concrete, not hypothetical or abstract"); Coleman v. Miller, 307 U. S. 433, 460 (1939) (opinion of Frankfurter, J.) ("[I]t [is] not for courts to pass upon . . . abstract, intellectual problems but only . . . concrete, living contest[s] between adversaries call[ing] for the arbitrament of law.").     Robins would not qualify, the Court observes, if he alleged a "bare" procedural violation, ante, at 10, one that results in no harm, for example, "an incorrect zip code," ante, at 11. Far from an incorrect zip code, Robins complains of misinformation about his education, family situation, and economic status, inaccurate representations that could affect his fortune in the job market. See Brief for Center for Democracy & Technology et al. as Amici Curiae 13 (Spokeo's inaccuracies bore on Robins' "ability to find employment by creating the erroneous impression that he was overqualified for the work he was seeking, that he might be unwilling to relocate for a job due to family commitments, or that his salary demands would exceed what prospective employers were prepared to offer him."); Brief for Restitution and Remedies Scholars et al. as Amici Curiae 35 ("An applicant can lose [a] job for being over-qualified; a suitor can lose a woman if she reads that he is married."). The FCRA's procedural requirements aimed to prevent such harm. See 115 Cong. Rec. 2410-2415 (1969). I therefore see no utility in returning this case to the Ninth Circuit to underscore what Robins' complaint already conveys concretely: Spokeo's misinformation "cause[s] actual harm to [his] employment prospects." App. 14.*??*??*     For the reasons stated, I would affirm the Ninth Circuit's judgment.FOOTNOTESThe Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (BAPCPA) amended the Bankruptcy Code to define a class of bankruptcy professionals termed "debt relief agenc[ies]." 11 U. S. C. §101(12A). That class includes, with limited exceptions, "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person ... for ... payment ... , or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." Ibid. The BAPCPA prohibits such professionals from "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt in contemplation of [filing for bankruptcy] ... ." §526(a)(4). It also requires them to disclose in their advertisements for certain services that the services are with respect to or may involve bankruptcy relief, §§528(a)(3), (b)(2)(A), and to identify themselves as debt relief agencies, §§528(a)(4), (b)(2)(B).          The plaintiffs in this litigation--a law firm and others (collectively Milavetz)--filed a preenforcement suit seeking declaratory relief, arguing that Milavetz is not bound by the BAPCPA's debt-relief-agency provisions and therefore can freely advise clients to incur additional debt and need not make the requisite disclosures in its advertisements. The District Court found that "debt relief agency" does not include attorneys and that §§526 and 528 are unconstitutional as applied to that class of professionals. The Eighth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part, rejecting the District Court's conclusion that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]"; upholding application of §528's disclosure requirements to attorneys; and finding §526(a)(4) unconstitutional because it broadly prohibits debt relief agencies from advising assisted persons to incur any additional debt in contemplation of bankruptcy even when the advice constitutes prudent prebankruptcy planning.Held:     1. Attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are debt relief agencies under the BAPCPA. By definition, "bankruptcy assistance" includes several services commonly performed by attorneys, e.g., providing "advice, counsel, [or] document preparation," §101(4A). Moreover, in enumerating specific exceptions to the debt-relief-agency definition, Congress indicated no intent to exclude attorneys. See §§101(12A)(A)-(E). Milavetz relies on the fact that §101(12A) does not expressly include attorneys in advocating a narrower understanding. On that reading, only a bankruptcy petition preparer would qualify--an implausibility given that a "debt relief agency" is "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance ... or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer," ibid. Milavetz's other arguments for excluding attorneys are also unpersuasive. Pp. 5-9.     2. Section 526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising a debtor to incur more debt because the debtor is filing for bankruptcy, rather than for a valid purpose. The statute's language, together with its purpose, makes a narrow reading of §526(a)(4) the natural one. Conrad, Rubin & Lesser v. Pender, 289 U. S. 472, supports this conclusion. The Court in that case read now-repealed §96(d), which authorized reexamination of a debtor's attorney's fees payment "in contemplation of the filing of a petition," to require that the portended bankruptcy have "induce[d]" the transfer at issue, id., at 477, understanding inducement to engender suspicion of abuse. The Court identified the "controlling question" as "whether the thought of bankruptcy was the impelling cause of the transaction," ibid. Given the substantial similarities between §§96(d) and 526(a)(4), the controlling question under the latter is likewise whether the impelling reason for "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt" was the prospect of filing for bankruptcy. In practice, advice impelled by the prospect of filing will generally consist of advice to "load up" on debt with the expectation of obtaining its discharge. The statutory context supports the conclusion that §526(a)(4)'s prohibition primarily targets this type of conduct. The Court rejects Milavetz's arguments for a more expansive view of §526(a)(4) and its claim that the provision, narrowly construed, is impermissibly vague. Pp. 9-18.     3. Section 528's disclosure requirements are valid as applied to Milavetz. Consistent with Milavetz's characterization, the Court presumes that this is an as-applied challenge. Because §528 is directed at misleading commercial speech and imposes only a disclosure requirement rather than an affirmative limitation on speech, the less exacting scrutiny set out in Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626, governs. There, the Court found that, while unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements offend the First Amendment, "an advertiser's rights are adequately protected as long as disclosure requirements are reasonably related to the State's interest in preventing deception of consumers." Id., at 651. Section 528's requirements share the essential features of the rule challenged in Zauderer. The disclosures are intended to combat the problem of inherently misleading commercial advertisements, and they entail only an accurate statement of the advertiser's legal status and the character of the assistance provided. Moreover, they do not prevent debt relief agencies from conveying any additional information through their advertisements. In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191, distinguished. Because §528's requirements are "reasonably related" to the Government's interest in preventing consumer deception, the Court upholds those provisions as applied to Milavetz. Pp. 18-23.541 F. 3d 785, affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.     Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Stevens, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, and Alito, JJ., joined, in which Scalia, J., joined except for n. 3, and in which Thomas, J., joined except for Part III-C. Scalia, J., and Thomas, J., filed opinions concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.     Congress enacted the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (BAPCPA or Act) to correct perceived abuses of the bankruptcy system. Among the reform measures the Act implemented are a number of provisions that regulate the conduct of "debt relief agenc[ies]"--i.e., professionals who provide bankruptcy assistance to consumer debtors. See 11 U. S. C. §§101(3), (12A). These consolidated cases present the threshold question whether attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services. Because we agree with the Court of Appeals that they are, we must also consider whether the Act's provisions governing debt relief agencies' advice to clients, §526(a)(4), and requiring them to make certain disclosures in their advertisements, §§528(a) and (b)(2), violate the First Amendment rights of attorneys. Concluding that the Court of Appeals construed §526(a)(4) too expansively, we reverse its judgment that the provision is unconstitutionally overbroad. Like the Court of Appeals, we uphold §528's disclosure requirements as applied in these consolidated cases.I     In order to improve bankruptcy law and practice, Congress enacted through the BAPCPA a number of provisions directed at the conduct of bankruptcy professionals. Some of these measures apply to the broad class of bankruptcy professionals termed "debt relief agenc[ies]." That category includes, with limited exceptions, "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person in return for ... payment ... , or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." §101(12A).1 "Bankruptcy assistance" refers to goods or services "provided to an assisted person with the express or implied purpose of providing information, advice, counsel, document preparation, or filing, or attendance at a creditors' meeting or appearing in a case or proceeding on behalf of another or providing legal representation with respect to a case or proceeding" in bankruptcy. §101(4A). An "assisted person" is someone with limited nonexempt property whose debts consist primarily of consumer debts. §101(3). The BAPCPA subjects debt relief agencies to a number of restrictions and requirements, as set forth in §§526, 527, and 528. As relevant here, §526(a) establishes several rules of professional conduct for persons qualifying as debt relief agencies. Among them, §526(a)(4) states that a debt relief agency shall not "advise an assisted person ... to incur more debt in contemplation of such person filing a case under this title or to pay an attorney or bankruptcy petition preparer fee or charge for services performed as part of preparing for or representing a debtor in a case under this title."     Section 528 requires qualifying professionals to include certain disclosures in their advertisements. Subsection (a) provides that debt relief agencies must "clearly and conspicuously disclose in any advertisement of bankruptcy assistance services or of the benefits of bankruptcy directed to the general public ... that the services or benefits are with respect to bankruptcy relief under this title." §528(a)(3). It also requires them to include the following, "or a substantially similar statement": "We are a debt relief agency. We help people file for bankruptcy relief under the Bankruptcy Code." §528(a)(4). Subsection (b) requires essentially the same disclosures in advertisements "indicating that the debt relief agency provides assistance with respect to credit defaults, mortgage foreclosures, eviction proceedings, excessive debt, debt collection pressure, or inability to pay any consumer debt." §528(b)(2). Debt relief agencies advertising such services must disclose "that the assistance may involve bankruptcy relief," §528(b)(2)(A), and must identify themselves as "debt relief agenc[ies]" as required by §528(a)(4), see §528(b)(2)(B).II     The plaintiffs in this litigation--the law firm Milavetz, Gallop & Milavetz, P. A.; the firm's president, Robert J. Milavetz; a bankruptcy attorney at the firm, Barbara Nilva Nevin; and two of the firm's clients (collectively Milavetz)--filed a preenforcement suit in Federal District Court seeking declaratory relief with respect to the Act's debt-relief-agency provisions. Milavetz asked the court to hold that it is not bound by these provisions and thus may freely advise clients to incur additional debt and need not identify itself as a debt relief agency in its advertisements.     Milavetz first argued that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]" as that term is used in the BAPCPA. In the alternative, Milavetz sought a judgment that §§526(a)(4) and 528(a)(4) and (b)(2) are unconstitutional as applied to attorneys. The District Court agreed with Milavetz that the term "debt relief agency" does not include attorneys, App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 08-1119, p. A-15, but only after finding that §§526 and 528--provisions expressly applicable only to debt relief agencies--are unconstitutional as applied to this class of professionals.     The Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part. 541 F. 3d 785 (2008). Relying on the Act's plain language, the court unanimously rejected the District Court's conclusion that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]" within the meaning of the Act. The Court of Appeals also parted ways with the District Court concerning the constitutionality of §528. Concluding that the disclosures are intended to prevent consumer deception and are "reasonably related" to that interest, the court upheld the application of §528's disclosure requirements to attorneys. Id., at 796-797 (citing Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626, 651 (1985)).     A majority of the Eighth Circuit panel, however, agreed with the District Court that §526(a)(4) is invalid. Determining that §526(a)(4) "broadly prohibits a debt relief agency from advising an assisted person ... to incur any additional debt when the assisted person is contemplating bankruptcy," even when that advice constitutes prudent prebankruptcy planning not intended to abuse the bankruptcy laws, 541 F. 3d, at 793, the majority held that §526(a)(4) could not withstand either strict or intermediate scrutiny. In dissent, Judge Colloton argued that §526(a)(4) should be read narrowly to prevent only advice to abuse the bankruptcy system, noting that this construction would avoid most constitutional difficulties. See id., at 799 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part).     In light of a conflict among the Courts of Appeals,2 we granted certiorari to resolve the question of §526(a)(4)'s scope. 556 U. S. ___ (2009). We also agreed to consider the threshold question whether attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are "debt relief agenc[ies]" within the meaning of §101(12A) and the related question whether §528's disclosure requirements are constitutional.IIIA     We first consider whether the term "debt relief agency" includes attorneys. If it does not, we need not reach the other questions presented, as §§526 and 528 govern only the conduct of debt relief agencies, and Milavetz challenges the validity of those provisions based on their application to attorneys. The Government contends that "debt relief agency" plainly includes attorneys, while Milavetz urges that it does not. We conclude that the Government has the better view.     As already noted, a debt relief agency is "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person" in return for payment. §101(12A). By definition, "bankruptcy assistance" includes several services commonly performed by attorneys. Indeed, some forms of bankruptcy assistance, including the "provi[sion of] legal representation with respect to a case or proceeding," §101(4A), may be provided only by attorneys. See §110(e)(2) (prohibiting bankruptcy petition preparers from providing legal advice). Moreover, in enumerating specific exceptions to the definition of debt relief agency, Congress gave no indication that it intended to exclude attorneys. See §§101(12A)(A)-(E). Thus, as the Government contends, the statutory text clearly indicates that attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services to assisted persons.3     In advocating a narrower understanding of that term, Milavetz relies heavily on the fact that §101(12A) does not expressly include attorneys. That omission stands in contrast, it argues, to the provision's explicit inclusion of "bankruptcy petition preparer[s]"--a category of professionals that excludes attorneys and their staff, see §110(a)(1). But Milavetz does not contend, nor could it credibly, that only professionals expressly included in the definition are debt relief agencies. On that reading, no professional other than a bankruptcy petition preparer would qualify--an implausible reading given that the statute defines "debt relief agency" as "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person ... or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." §101(12A) (emphasis added). The provision's silence regarding attorneys thus avails Milavetz little. Cf. Heintz v. Jenkins, 514 U. S. 291, 294 (1995) (holding that "debt collector" as used in the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, 15 U. S. C. §1692a(6), includes attorneys notwithstanding the definition's lack of an express reference to lawyers or litigation).     Milavetz's other arguments for excluding attorneys similarly fail to persuade us to disregard the statute's plain language. Milavetz contends that 11 U. S. C. §526(d)(2)'s instruction that §§526, 527, and 528 should not "be deemed to limit or curtail" States' authority to "determine and enforce qualifications for the practice of law" counsels against reading "debt relief agency" to include attorneys, as the surest way to protect the States' role in regulating the legal profession is to make the BAPCPA's professional conduct rules inapplicable to lawyers. We find that §526(d)(2) supports the opposite conclusion, as Congress would have had no reason to enact that provision if the debt-relief-agency provisions did not apply to attorneys. Milavetz's broader claim that reading §101(12A) to include attorneys impermissibly trenches on an area of traditional state regulation also lacks merit. Congress and the bankruptcy courts have long overseen aspects of attorney conduct in this area of substantial federal concern. See, e.g., Conrad, Rubin & Lesser v. Pender, 289 U. S. 472, 477-479 (1933) (finding broad authorization in former §96(d) (1934 ed.) (repealed 1978) for courts to examine the reasonableness of a debtor's prepetition attorney's fees).     Milavetz next argues that §101(12A)'s exception for any "officer, director, employee, or agent of a person who provides" bankruptcy assistance is revealing for its failure to include "partners." §101(12A)(A). In light of that omission, it contends, treating attorneys as debt relief agencies will obligate entire law firms to comply with §§526, 527, and 528 based on the conduct of a single partner, while the agents and employees of debt relief agencies not typically organized as partnerships are shielded from those requirements. Given that the partnership structure is not unique to law firms, however, it is unclear why the exclusion would be revealing of Congress' intent only with respect to attorneys. In any event, partnerships are themselves "person[s]" under the BAPCPA, see §101(41), and can qualify as "debt relief agenc[ies]" when they meet the criteria set forth in §101(12A). Moreover, a partnership's employees and agents are exempted from §101(12A) in the same way as the employees and agents of other organizations. To the extent that partners may be subject to the debt-relief-agency provisions by association, that result is consistent with the joint responsibilities that typically flow from the partnership structure, cf. Strang v. Bradner, 114 U. S. 555, 561 (1885). Accordingly, we decline to attribute the significance Milavetz suggests to §101(12A)(A)'s failure to include partners among the exempted actors.4     All else failing, Milavetz urges that the canon of constitutional avoidance requires us to read "debt relief agency" to exclude attorneys in order to forestall serious doubts as to the validity of §§526 and 528. The avoidance canon, however, "is a tool for choosing between competing plausible interpretations of a statutory text." Clark v. Martinez, 543 U. S. 371, 381 (2005). In applying that tool, we will consider only those constructions of a statute that are " 'fairly possible.' " United States v. Security Industrial Bank, 459 U. S. 70, 78 (1982). For the reasons already discussed, the text and statutory context of §101(12A) foreclose a reading of "debt relief agency" that excludes attorneys. Accordingly, we hold that attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are debt relief agencies within the meaning of the BAPCPA.B     Having concluded that attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services, we next address the scope and validity of §526(a)(4). Characterizing the statute as a broad, content-based restriction on attorney-client communications that is not adequately tailored to constrain only speech the Government has a substantial interest in restricting, the Eighth Circuit found the rule substantially overbroad. 541 F. 3d, at 793-794, and n. 10. For the reasons that follow, we reject that conclusion.     Section 526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency from "advis[ing] an assisted person" either "to incur more debt in contemplation of" filing for bankruptcy "or to pay an attorney or bankruptcy petition preparer fee or charge for services" performed in preparation for filing. Only the first of these prohibitions is at issue. In debating the correctness of the Court of Appeals' decision, the parties first dispute the provision's scope. The Court of Appeals concluded that "§526(a)(4) broadly prohibits a debt relief agency from advising an assisted person ... to incur any additional debt when the assisted person is contemplating bankruptcy." Id., at 793. Under that reading, an attorney is prohibited from providing all manner of "beneficial advice--even if the advice could help the assisted person avoid filing for bankruptcy altogether." Ibid.     Agreeing with the Court of Appeals, Milavetz contends that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency from advising a client to incur any new debt while considering whether to file for bankruptcy. Construing the provision more broadly still, Milavetz contends that §526(a)(4) forbids not only affirmative advice but also any discussion of the advantages, disadvantages, or legality of incurring more debt. Like the panel majority's, Milavetz's reading rests primarily on its view that the ordinary meaning of the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy encompasses any advice given to a debtor with the awareness that he might soon file for bankruptcy, even if the advice seeks to obviate the need to file. Milavetz also maintains that if §526(a)(4) were construed more narrowly, as urged by the Government and the dissent below, it would be so vague as to inevitably chill some protected speech.     The Government continues to advocate a narrower construction of the statute, urging that Milavetz's reading is untenable and that its vagueness concerns are misplaced. The Government contends that §526(a)(4)'s restriction on advice to incur more debt "in contemplation of" bankruptcy is most naturally read to forbid only advice to undertake actions to abuse the bankruptcy system. Focusing first on the provision's text, the Government points to sources indicating that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy has long been, and continues to be, associated with abusive conduct. For instance, Black's Law Dictionary 336 (8th ed. 2004) (hereinafter Black's) defines "contemplation of bankruptcy" as "[t]he thought of declaring bankruptcy because of the inability to continue current financial operations, often coupled with action designed to thwart the distribution of assets in a bankruptcy proceeding." Use of the phrase by Members of Congress illustrates that traditional coupling. See, e.g., S. Rep. No. 98-65, p. 9 (1983) (discussing the practice of " 'loading up' [on debt] in contemplation of bankruptcy"); Report of the Commission on the Bankruptcy Laws of the United States, H. R. Doc. No. 93-137, pt. I, p. 11 (1973) ("[T]he most serious abuse of consumer bankruptcy is the number of instances in which individuals have purchased a sizable quantity of goods and services on credit on the eve of bankruptcy in contemplation of obtaining a discharge"). The Government also points to early American and English judicial decisions to corroborate its contention that "in contemplation of" bankruptcy signifies abusive conduct. See, e.g., In re Pearce, 19 F. Cas. 50, 53 (No. 10,873) (D. Vt. 1843); Morgan v. Brundrett, 5 B. Ad. 288, 296-297, 110 Eng. Rep. 798, 801 (K. B. 1833) (Parke, J.).     To bolster its textual claim, the Government relies on §526(a)(4)'s immediate context. According to the Government, the other three subsections of §526(a) are designed to protect debtors from abusive practices by debt relief agencies: §526(a)(1) requires debt relief agencies to perform all promised services; §526(a)(2) prohibits them from making or advising debtors to make false or misleading statements in bankruptcy; and §526(a)(3) prohibits them from misleading debtors regarding the costs or benefits of bankruptcy. When §526(a)(4) is read in context of these debtor-protective provisions, the Government argues, construing it to prevent debt relief agencies from giving advice that is beneficial to both debtors and their creditors seems particularly nonsensical.     Finally, the Government contends that the BAPCPA's remedies for violations of §526(a)(4) similarly corroborate its narrow reading. Section 526(c) provides remedies for a debt relief agency's violation of §526, §527, or §528. Among the actions authorized, a debtor may sue the attorney for remittal of fees, actual damages, and reasonable attorney's fees and costs; a state attorney general may sue for a resident's actual damages; and a court finding intentional abuse may impose an appropriate civil penalty. §526(c). The Government also relies on the Fifth Circuit's decision in Hersh v. United States ex rel. Mukasey, 553 F. 3d 743 (2008), and Judge Colloton's dissent below for the observation that "Congress's emphasis on actual damages for violations of section 526(a)(4) strongly suggests that Congress viewed that section as aimed at advice to debtors which if followed would have a significant risk of harming the debtor." Id., at 760; see 541 F. 3d, at 800 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part). By contrast, "legal and appropriate advice that would be protected by the First Amendment, yet prohibited by a broad reading of §526(a)(4), should cause no damage at all." Ibid.; see Hersh, 541 F. 3d, at 760.     Milavetz contends that the Government's sources actually undermine its claim that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy necessarily refers to abusive conduct. Specifically, Milavetz argues that these authorities illustrate that "in contemplation of" bankruptcy is a neutral phrase that only implies abusive conduct when attached to an additional, proscriptive term. As Black's states, the phrase is "often coupled with action designed to thwart the distribution of assets" in bankruptcy, Black's 336 (emphasis added), but it carries no independent connotation of abuse. In support of that conclusion, Milavetz relies on our decision in Pender, 289 U. S. 472, contending that we construed "in contemplation of" bankruptcy in that case to describe "conduct with a view to a probable bankruptcy filing and nothing more." Brief for Milavetz 61.     After reviewing these competing claims, we are persuaded that a narrower reading of §526(a)(4) is sounder, although we do not adopt precisely the view the Government advocates. The Government's sources show that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy has so commonly been associated with abusive conduct that it may readily be understood to prefigure abuse. As used in §526(a)(4), however, we think the phrase refers to a specific type of misconduct designed to manipulate the protections of the bankruptcy system. In light of our decision in Pender, and in context of other sections of the Code, we conclude that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising a debtor to incur more debt because the debtor is filing for bankruptcy, rather than for a valid purpose.     Pender addressed the meaning of former §96(d), which authorized reexamination of a debtor's payment of attorney's fees "in contemplation of the filing of a petition." Recognizing " 'the temptation of a failing debtor to deal too liberally with his property in enabling counsel to protect him,' " 289 U. S., at 478 (quoting In re Wood & Henderson, 210 U. S. 246, 253 (1908)), we read "in contemplation of ... filing" in that context to require that the portended bankruptcy have "induce[d]" the transfer at issue, 289 U. S., at 477, understanding inducement to engender suspicion of abuse. In so construing the statute, we identified the "controlling question" as "whether the thought of bankruptcy was the impelling cause of the transaction." Ibid. Given the substantial similarities between §§96(d) and 526(a)(4), we think the controlling question under the latter provision is likewise whether the impelling reason for "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt" was the prospect of filing for bankruptcy.     To be sure, there are relevant differences between the provision at issue in Pender and the one now under review. Most notably, the inquiry in Pender was as to payments made on the eve of bankruptcy, whereas §526(a)(4) regards advice to incur additional debts. Consistent with that difference, under §96(d) a finding that a payment was made "in contemplation of" filing resolved only a threshold inquiry triggering further review of the reasonableness of the payment; the finding thus supported an inference of abuse but did not conclusively establish it. By contrast, advice to incur more debt because of bankruptcy, as prohibited by §526(a)(4), will generally consist of advice to "load up" on debt with the expectation of obtaining its discharge--i.e., conduct that is abusive per se.     The statutory context supports the conclusion that §526(a)(4)'s prohibition primarily targets this type of abuse. Code provisions predating the BAPCPA already sought to prevent the practice of loading up on debt prior to filing. Section 523(a)(2), for instance, addressed the attendant risk of manipulation by preventing the discharge of debts obtained by false pretenses and making debts for purchases of luxury goods or services presumptively nondischargeable. See §§523(a)(2)(A) and (C) (2000 ed.). The BAPCPA increased the risk of such abuse, however, by providing a new mechanism for determining a debtor's ability to repay. Pursuant to the "means tes[t]," §707(b)(2)(D) (2006 ed.), a debtor's petition for Chapter 7 relief is presumed abusive (and may therefore be dismissed or converted to a structured repayment plan under Chapter 13) if the debtor's current monthly income exceeds his statutorily allowed expenses, including payments for secured debt, by more than a prescribed amount. See §§707(b)(2)(A)(i)-(iv). The test promotes debtor accountability but also enhances incentives to incur additional debt prior to filing, as payments on secured debts offset a debtor's monthly income under the formula. Other amendments effected by the BAPCPA reflect a concern with this practice. For instance, Congress amended §523(a)(2) to expand the exceptions to discharge by lowering the threshold amount of new debt a debtor must assume to trigger the presumption of abuse under §523(a)(2)(C), and it extended the relevant prefiling window. See §310, 119 Stat. 84. In context, §526(a)(4) is best understood to provide an additional safeguard against the practice of loading up on debt prior to filing.     The Government's contextual arguments provide additional support for the view that §526(a)(4) was meant to prevent this type of conduct. The companion rules of professional conduct in §§526(a)(1)-(3) and the remedies for their violation in §526(c) indicate that Congress was concerned with actions that threaten to harm debtors or creditors. Unlike the reasonable financial advice the Eighth Circuit's broad reading would proscribe, advice to incur more debt because of bankruptcy presents a substantial risk of injury to both debtors and creditors. See Hersh, 553 F. 3d, at 760-761. Specifically, the incurrence of such debt stands to harm a debtor if his prepetition conduct leads a court to hold his debts nondischargable, see §523(a)(2), convert his case to another chapter, or dismiss it altogether, see §707(b), thereby defeating his effort to obtain bankruptcy relief. If a debt, although manipulatively incurred, is not timely identified as abusive and therefore is discharged, creditors will suffer harm as a result of the discharge and the consequent dilution of the bankruptcy estate. By contrast, the prudent advice that the Eighth Circuit's view of the statute forbids would likely benefit both debtors and creditors and at the very least should cause no harm. See id., at 760; 541 F. 3d, at 800 (Colloton, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). For all of these reasons, we conclude that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising an assisted person to incur more debt when the impelling reason for the advice is the anticipation of bankruptcy.     That "[n]o other solution yields as sensible a" result further persuades us of the correctness of this narrow reading. United States v. Granderson, 511 U. S. 39, 55 (1994). It would make scant sense to prevent attorneys and other debt relief agencies from advising individuals thinking of filing for bankruptcy about options that would be beneficial to both those individuals and their creditors. That construction serves none of the purposes of the Bankruptcy Code or the amendments enacted through the BAPCPA. Milavetz itself acknowledges that its expansive view of §526(a)(4) would produce absurd results; that is one of its bases for arguing that "debt relief agency" should be construed to exclude attorneys. Because the language and context of §526(a)(4) evidence a more targeted purpose, we can avoid the absurdity of which Milavetz complains without reaching the result it advocates.     For the same reason, we reject Milavetz's suggestion that §526(a)(4) broadly prohibits debt relief agencies from discussing covered subjects instead of merely proscribing affirmative advice to undertake a particular action. Section 526(a)(4) by its terms prevents debt relief agencies only from "advis[ing]" assisted persons "to incur" more debt. Covered professionals remain free to "tal[k] fully and candidly about the incurrence of debt in contemplation of filing a bankruptcy case." Brief for Milavetz 73. Section 526(a)(4) requires professionals only to avoid instructing or encouraging assisted persons to take on more debt in that circumstance. Cf. ABA Model Rule of Professional Conduct 1.2(d) (2009) ("A lawyer shall not counsel a client to engage, or assist a client, in conduct that the lawyer knows is criminal or fraudulent, but a lawyer may discuss the legal consequences of any proposed course of conduct with a client and may counsel or assist a client to make a good faith effort to determine the validity, scope, meaning or application of the law"). Even if the statute were not clear in this regard, we would reach the same conclusion about its scope because the inhibition of frank discussion serves no conceivable purpose within the statutory scheme. Cf. Johnson v. United States, 529 U. S. 694, 706, n. 9 (2000).5     Finally, we reject Milavetz's contention that, narrowly construed, §526(a)(4) is impermissibly vague. Milavetz urges that the concept of abusive prefiling conduct is too indefinite to withstand constitutional scrutiny and that uncertainty regarding the scope of the prohibition will chill protected speech. We disagree.     Under our reading of the statute, of course, the prohibited advice is not defined in terms of abusive prefiling conduct but rather the incurrence of additional debt when the impelling reason is the anticipation of bankruptcy. Even if the test depended upon the notion of abuse, however, Milavetz's claim would be fatally undermined by other provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, to which that concept is no stranger. As discussed above, the Code authorizes a bankruptcy court to decline to discharge fraudulent debts, see §523(a)(2), or to dismiss a case or convert it to a case under another chapter if it finds that granting relief would constitute abuse, see §707(b)(1). Attorneys and other professionals who give debtors bankruptcy advice must know of these provisions and their consequences for a debtor who in bad faith incurs additional debt prior to filing. Indeed, §707(b)(4)(C) states that an attorney's signature on bankruptcy filings "shall constitute a certification that the attorney has" determined that the filing "does not constitute an abuse under [§707(b)(1)]." Against this backdrop, it is hard to see how a rule that narrowly prohibits an attorney from affirmatively advising a client to commit this type of abusive prefiling conduct could chill attorney speech or inhibit the attorney-client relationship. Our construction of §526(a)(4) to prevent only advice principally motivated by the prospect of bankruptcy further ensures that professionals cannot unknowingly run afoul of its proscription.6 Because the scope of the prohibition is adequately defined, both on its own terms and by reference to the Code's other provisions, we reject Milavetz's vagueness claim.     As the foregoing shows, the language of the statute, together with other evidence of its purpose, makes this narrow reading of §526(a)(4) not merely a plausible interpretation but the more natural one. Accordingly, we reject the Eighth Circuit's conclusion and hold that a debt relief agency violates §526(a)(4) only when the impetus of the advice to incur more debt is the expectation of filing for bankruptcy and obtaining the attendant relief. Because our reading of the statute supplies a sufficient ground for reversing the Court of Appeals' decision, and because Milavetz challenges the constitutionality of the statute, as narrowed, only on vagueness grounds, we need not further consider whether the statute so construed withstands First Amendment scrutiny.C     Finally, we address the validity of §528's challenged disclosure requirements. Our first task in resolving this question is to determine the contours of Milavetz's claim. Although the nature of its challenge is not entirely clear from the briefing or decisions below, counsel for Milavetz insisted at oral argument that this is "not a facial challenge; it's an as-applied challenge." Tr. of Oral Arg. 26. We will approach the question consistent with Milavetz's characterization.7     We next consider the standard of scrutiny applicable to §528's disclosure requirements. The parties agree, as do we, that the challenged provisions regulate only commercial speech. Milavetz contends that our decision in Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y., 447 U. S. 557 (1980), supplies the proper standard for reviewing these requirements. The Court in that case held that restrictions on nonmisleading commercial speech regarding lawful activity must withstand intermediate scrutiny--that is, they must "directly advanc[e]" a substantial governmental interest and be "n[o] more extensive than is necessary to serve that interest." Id., at 566. Contesting Milavetz's premise, the Government maintains that §528 is directed at misleading commercial speech. For that reason, and because the challenged provisions impose a disclosure requirement rather than an affirmative limitation on speech, the Government contends that the less exacting scrutiny described in Zauderer governs our review. We agree.     Zauderer addressed the validity of a rule of professional conduct that required attorneys who advertised contingency-fee services to disclose in their advertisements that a losing client might still be responsible for certain litigation fees and costs. Noting that First Amendment protection for commercial speech is justified in large part by the information's value to consumers, the Court concluded that an attorney's constitutionally protected interest in not providing the required factual information is "minimal." 471 U. S., at 651. Unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements offend the First Amendment by chilling protected speech, but "an advertiser's rights are adequately protected as long as disclosure requirements are reasonably related to the State's interest in preventing deception of consumers." Ibid.     The challenged provisions of §528 share the essential features of the rule at issue in Zauderer. As in that case, §528's required disclosures are intended to combat the problem of inherently misleading commercial advertisements--specifically, the promise of debt relief without any reference to the possibility of filing for bankruptcy, which has inherent costs. Additionally, the disclosures entail only an accurate statement identifying the advertiser's legal status and the character of the assistance provided, and they do not prevent debt relief agencies like Milavetz from conveying any additional information.     The same characteristics of §528 that make it analogous to the rule in Zauderer serve to distinguish it from those at issue in In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191 (1982), to which the Court applied the intermediate scrutiny of Central Hudson. The ethical rules addressed in R. M. J. prohibited attorneys from advertising their practice areas in terms other than those prescribed by the State Supreme Court and from announcing the courts in which they were admitted to practice. See 455 U. S., at 197-198. Finding that the restricted statements were not inherently misleading and that the State had failed to show that the appellant's advertisements were themselves likely to mislead consumers, see id., at 205, the Court applied Central Hudson's intermediate scrutiny and invalidated the restrictions as insufficiently tailored to any substantial state interest, 455 U. S., at 205-206. In so holding, the Court emphasized that States retain authority to regulate inherently misleading advertisements, particularly through disclosure requirements, and it noted that advertisements for professional services pose a special risk of deception. See id., at 203, 207.     Milavetz makes much of the fact that the Government in these consolidated cases has adduced no evidence that its advertisements are misleading. Zauderer forecloses that argument: "When the possibility of deception is as self-evident as it is in this case, we need not require the State to 'conduct a survey of the ... public before it [may] determine that the [advertisement] had a tendency to mislead.' " 471 U. S., at 652-653 (quoting FTC v. Colgate-Palmolive Co., 380 U. S. 374, 391-392 (1965)). Evidence in the congressional record demonstrating a pattern of advertisements that hold out the promise of debt relief without alerting consumers to its potential cost, see 1998 Hearings, pt. III, at 86, 90-94, is adequate to establish that the likelihood of deception in this case "is hardly a speculative one," 471 U. S., at 652.     Milavetz alternatively argues that the term "debt relief agency" is confusing and misleading and that requiring its inclusion in advertisements cannot be "reasonably related" to the Government's interest in preventing consumer deception, as Zauderer requires. Id., at 651. This contention amounts to little more than a preference on Milavetz's part for referring to itself as something other than a "debt relief agency"--e.g., an attorney or a law firm. For several reasons, we conclude that this preference lacks any constitutional basis. First, Milavetz offers no evidence to support its claim that the label is confusing. Because §528 by its terms applies only to debt relief agencies, the disclosures are necessarily accurate to that extent: Only debt relief agencies must identify themselves as such in their advertisements. This statement provides interested observers with pertinent information about the advertiser's services and client obligations.     Other information that Milavetz must or may include in its advertisements for bankruptcy-assistance services provides additional assurance that consumers will not misunderstand the term. The required statement that the advertiser " 'help[s] people file for bankruptcy relief' " gives meaningful context to the term "debt relief agency." And Milavetz may further identify itself as a law firm or attorney. Section 528 also gives Milavetz flexibility to tailor the disclosures to its individual circumstances, as long as the resulting statements are "substantially similar" to the statutory examples. §§528(a)(4) and (b)(2)(B).     Finally, we reject Milavetz's argument that §528 is not reasonably related to any governmental interest because it applies equally to attorneys who represent creditors, as Milavetz sometimes does. The required disclosures, Milavetz contends, would be counterfactual and misleading in that context. This claim is premised on an untenable reading of the statute. We think it evident from the definition of "assisted person"--which is stated in terms of the person's debts, see §101(3)--and from the text and structure of the debt-relief-agency provisions in §§526, 527, and 528 that those provisions, including §528's disclosure requirements, govern only professionals who offer bankruptcy-related services to consumer debtors. Section 528 is itself expressly concerned with advertisements pertaining to "bankruptcy assistance services," "the benefits of bankruptcy," "excessive debt, debt collection pressure, or inability to pay any consumer debt," §§528(a)(3) and (b)(2). Moreover, like the other debt-relief-agency provisions, that section is codified in a subchapter of the Bankruptcy Code entitled "debtor's duties and benefits." 11 U. S. C., ch. 5, subch. II. In context, reading §528 to govern advertisements aimed at creditors would be as anomalous as the result of which Milavetz complains. Once again, we decline Milavetz's invitation to adopt a view of the statute that is contrary to its plain meaning and would produce an absurd result.     Because §528's requirements that Milavetz identify itself as a debt relief agency and include certain information about its bankruptcy-assistance and related services are "reasonably related to the [Government's] interest in preventing deception of consumers," Zauderer, 471 U. S., at 651, we uphold those provisions as applied to Milavetz.IV     For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit is affirmed as to §§101(12A) and 528 and reversed as to §526(a)(4), and the cases are remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Scalia, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.     I join the opinion of the Court, except for footnote 3, which notes that the legislative history supports what the statute unambiguously says. The Court first notes that statements in the Report of the House Committee on the Judiciary "indicate concern with abusive practices undertaken by attorneys." Ante, at 6, n. 3. Perhaps, but only the concern of the author of the Report. Such statements tell us nothing about what the statute means, since (1) we do not know that the members of the Committee read the Report, (2) it is almost certain that they did not vote on the Report (that is not the practice), and (3) even if they did read and vote on it, they were not, after all, those who made this law. The statute before us is a law because its text was approved by a majority vote of the House and the Senate, and was signed by the President. Even indulging the extravagant assumption that Members of the House other than members of its Committee on the Judiciary read the Report (and the further extravagant assumption that they agreed with it), the Members of the Senate could not possibly have read it, since it did not exist when the Senate passed the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005. And the President surely had more important things to do.     The footnote's other source of legislative history is truly mystifying. For the proposition that "the legislative record elsewhere documents misconduct by attorneys" which was presumably the concern of Congress, the Court cites a reproduction of a tasteless advertisement that was (1) an attachment to the written statement of a witness, (2) in a hearing held seven years prior to this statute's passage, (3) before a subcommittee of the House considering a different consumer bankruptcy reform bill that never passed.* "Elsewhere" indeed.     The Court acknowledges that nothing can be gained by this superfluous citation (it admits the footnote is "unnecessary in light of the statute's unambiguous language," ante, at 6, n. 3). But much can be lost. Our cases have said that legislative history is irrelevant when the statutory text is clear. See, e.g., United States v. Gonzales, 520 U. S. 1, 6 (1997); Connecticut Nat. Bank v. Germain, 503 U. S. 249, 254 (1992). The footnote advises conscientious attorneys that this is not true, and that they must spend time and their clients' treasure combing the annals of legislative history in all cases: To buttress their case where the statutory text is unambiguously in their favor; and to attack an unambiguous text that is against them. If legislative history is relevant to confirm that a clear text means what it says, it is presumably relevant to show that an apparently clear text does not mean what it seems to say. Even for those who believe in the legal fiction that committee reports reflect congressional intent, footnote 3 is a bridge too far.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Thomas, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.     I concur in the judgment and join all but Part III-C of the Court's opinion. I agree with the Court that 11 U. S. C. §528's advertising disclosure requirements survive First Amendment scrutiny on the record before us. I write separately because different reasons lead me to that conclusion.     I have never been persuaded that there is any basis in the First Amendment for the relaxed scrutiny this Court applies to laws that suppress nonmisleading commercial speech. See 44 Liquormart, Inc. v. Rhode Island, 517 U. S. 484, 522-523 (1996) (opinion concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (discussing Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y., 447 U. S. 557 (1980)). In this case, the Court applies a still lower standard of scrutiny to review a law that compels the disclosure of commercial speech--i.e., the rule articulated in Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626 (1985), that laws that require the disclosure of factual information in commercial advertising may be upheld so long as they are "reasonably related" to the government's interest in preventing consumer deception, id., at 651.     I am skeptical of the premise on which Zauderer rests--that, in the commercial-speech context, "the First Amendment interests implicated by disclosure requirements are substantially weaker than those at stake when speech is actually suppressed," id., at 652, n. 14; see id., at 650 (citing "material differences between disclosure requirements and outright prohibitions on speech"). We have refused in other contexts to attach any "constitutional significance" to the difference between regulations that compel protected speech and regulations that restrict it. See, e.g., Riley v. National Federation of Blind of N. C., Inc., 487 U. S. 781, 796-797 (1988). I see no reason why that difference should acquire constitutional significance merely because the regulations at issue involve commercial speech. See Glickman v. Wileman Brothers & Elliott, Inc., 521 U. S. 457, 480-481 (1997) (Souter, J., dissenting) (arguing that "commercial speech is ... subject to [this] First Amendment principle: that compelling cognizable speech officially is just as suspect as suppressing it, and is typically subject to the same level of scrutiny"); id., at 504 (Thomas, J., dissenting); cf. United States v. United Foods, Inc., 533 U. S. 405, 419 (2001) (Thomas, J., concurring) (stating that regulations that compel funding for commercial advertising "must be subjected to the most stringent First Amendment scrutiny").     Accordingly, I would be willing to reexamine Zauderer and its progeny in an appropriate case to determine whether these precedents provide sufficient First Amendment protection against government-mandated disclosures.1 Because no party asks us to do so here, however, I agree with the Court that the Zauderer standard governs our review of the challenge to §528 brought by the Milavetz law firm and the other plaintiffs in this action (hereinafter Milavetz).     Yet even under Zauderer, we "have not presumptively endorsed" laws requiring the use of "government-scripted disclaimers" in commercial advertising. See Borgner v. Florida Bd. of Dentistry, 537 U. S. 1080, 1082 (2002) (Thomas, J., dissenting from denial of certiorari). Zauderer upheld the imposition of sanctions against an attorney under a rule of professional conduct that required advertisements for contingency-fee services to disclose that losing clients might be responsible for litigation fees and costs. See 471 U. S., at 650-653. Importantly, however, Zauderer's advertisement was found to be misleading on its face, and the regulation in that case did not mandate the specific form or text of the disclosure. Ibid. Thus, Zauderer does not stand for the proposition that the government can constitutionally compel the use of a scripted disclaimer in any circumstance in which its interest in preventing consumer deception might plausibly be at stake. In other words, a bare assertion by the government that a disclosure requirement is "intended" to prevent consumer deception, standing alone, is not sufficient to uphold the requirement as applied to all speech that falls within its sweep. See ante, at 20.     Instead, our precedents make clear that regulations aimed at false or misleading advertisements are permissible only where "the particular advertising is inherently likely to deceive or where the record indicates that a particular form or method of advertising has in fact been deceptive." In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191, 202 (1982) (emphasis added); see Zauderer, supra, at 651 ("recogniz[ing] that unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements might offend the First Amendment"). Therefore, a disclosure requirement passes constitutional muster only to the extent that it is aimed at advertisements that, by their nature, possess these traits. See R. M. J., supra, at 202; Ibanez v. Florida Dept. of Business and Professional Regulation, Bd. of Accountancy, 512 U. S. 136, 143, 146-147 (1994).     I do not read the Court's opinion to hold otherwise. See ante, at 20. Accordingly, and with that understanding, I turn to the question whether Milavetz's challenge to §528's disclosure requirements survives Zauderer scrutiny on the record before us.     As the Court notes, the posture of Milavetz's challenge inhibits our review of its First Amendment claim. See ante, at 19, n. 7. Milavetz challenged §528's constitutionality before the statute had ever been enforced against any of the firm's advertisements. Although Milavetz purports to challenge §528 only " 'as-applied' " to its own advertising, see ante, at 19, it did not introduce any evidence or exhibits to substantiate its claim. Thus, no court has seen a sampling of Milavetz's advertisements or even a declaration describing their contents and the media through which Milavetz seeks to transmit them. As a consequence, Milavetz's nominal "as applied" challenge appears strikingly similar to a facial challenge.     We generally disapprove of such challenges because they "often rest on speculation" and require courts to engage in " 'premature interpretation of statutes on the basis of factually barebones records.' " Washington State Grange v. Washington State Republican Party, 552 U. S. 442, 450 (2008) (quoting Sabri v. United States, 541 U. S. 600, 609 (2004)). Milavetz's claim invites the same problems. Milavetz alleges that §528's disclosure requirements are unconstitutional as applied to its advertisements because its advertisements are not misleading and because the disclaimer required by §528 will create, rather than reduce, confusion for Milavetz's potential clients. That may well be true. But because no record evidence of Milavetz's advertisements exists to guide our review, we can only speculate about the ways in which the statute might be applied to Milavetz's speech.     When forced to determine the constitutionality of a statute based solely on such conjecture, we will uphold the law if there is any "conceivabl[e]" manner in which it can be enforced consistent with the First Amendment. Washington State Grange, supra, at 456. In this case, both parties agree that §528's disclosure requirements cover, at a minimum, deceptive advertisements that promise to " 'wipe out' " debts without mentioning bankruptcy as the means of accomplishing this goal.2 Brief for Milavetz 82, 86; Brief for United States 60-62. As a result, there is at least one set of facts on which the statute could be constitutionally applied. Thus, I agree with the Court that Milavetz's challenge to §528 must fail.FOOTNOTESRegulation Z--promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board (Board) pursuant to its authority under the Truth in Lending Act--requires credit card issuers to disclose certain information to cardholders. The version of the regulation in effect at the time this dispute arose obliges issuers to provide to cardholders an "[i]nitial disclosure statement," 12 CFR §226.6, specifying "each periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge," §226.6(a)(2). It also imposes "[s]ubsequent disclosure requirements," §226.9, including notice to cardholders "[w]henever any term required to be disclosed under §226.6 is changed," §226.9(c)(1). When "a periodic rate or other finance charge is increased because of the consumer's delinquency or default," notice must be given "before the effective date of the change." Ibid.          At the time respondent McCoy filed suit, he was the holder of a credit card issued by petitioner Chase Bank. The cardholder agreement provided, in relevant part, that McCoy was eligible for "Preferred rates" as long as he met certain conditions. If any of those conditions were not met, Chase reserved the right to raise the rate, up to a pre-set maximum, and to apply the change to both existing and new balances. McCoy alleges that Chase increased his interest rate due to his delinquency or default and applied that increase retroactively, and that this action violated Regulation Z because Chase did not notify him of the increase until after it had taken effect. The District Court dismissed his complaint, holding that because the increase did not constitute a "change in terms" under §226.9(c), Chase was not required to notify him of the increase before implementing it. The Ninth Circuit reversed in relevant part, holding that Regulation Z requires issuers to provide notice of an interest-rate increase prior to its effective date.Held: At the time of the transactions at issue, Regulation Z did not require Chase to provide McCoy with a change-in-terms notice before implementing the agreement term allowing it to raise his interest rate, up to a pre-set maximum, following delinquency or default. Pp. 7-19.     (a) This case requires the Court to determine the meaning of a regulation promulgated by the Board under its statutory authority. However, Regulation Z's text is unclear with respect to the crucial interpretive question at issue: whether a change to an interest rate, pursuant to previously-disclosed contractual provision, constitutes a change to a "term required to be disclosed under §226.6" requiring a subsequent disclosure under §226.9(c)(1). Because of this ambiguity, the Court must look to the Board's own interpretation of the regulation for guidance in deciding this case. Pp. 7-12.     (b) The Board has made clear in its amicus brief to this Court that, in its view, Chase was not required to give McCoy notice of the interest rate increase under the applicable version of Regulation Z. This Court defers to an agency's interpretation of its own regulation, advanced in a legal brief, unless that interpretation is "plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation." Auer v. Robbins, 519 U. S. 452, 461 (internal quotation marks omitted). In Auer, the Court deferred to the Secretary of Labor's interpretation of his own regulation, presented in an amicus brief submitted by the agency at the Court's invitation. The Court held that the fact that the interpretation came in a legal brief did not, "in the circumstances of th[at] case, make it unworthy of deference." Id., at 462. The interpretation was "in no sense a post hoc rationalization advanced by an agency seeking to defend past agency action against attack," ibid. (internal quotation marks and alteration omitted), and there was "no reason to suspect that the interpretation [did] not reflect the agency's fair and considered judgment on the matter in question," ibid. The brief submitted by the Board here, at the Court's invitation, is no different. As in Auer, there is no reason to believe that the Board's interpretation is a "post hoc rationalization" taken as a litigation position, for the Board is not a party to this case. And its interpretation is neither "plainly erroneous" nor "inconsistent with" the indeterminate text of Regulation Z. Thus, there is no reason to suspect that the Board's position in its amicus brief reflects anything other than its fair and considered judgment as to what the regulation required at the time this dispute arose. That Congress and the Board may currently hold a different view does not mean that deference is not warranted to the Board's understanding of what the applicable version of Regulation Z required. Under Auer, therefore, it is clear that deference to the interpretation in the agency amicus brief is warranted. Pp. 12-16.     (c) McCoy errs in arguing that deference to a legal brief is inappropriate because the interpretation of Regulation Z in the Official Staff Commentary commands a different result. While Commentary promulgated by the Board as an interpretation of Regulation Z may warrant deference as a general matter, the Commentary explaining the requirements at issue in this case largely replicates the ambiguity present in the regulatory text, and therefore offers no reason to disregard the interpretation advanced in the Board's amicus brief. Pp. 16-19.559 F. 3d 963, reversed and remanded.     Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.CHASE BANK USA, N. A., PETITIONER v. JAMES A. McCOY, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situatedon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[January 24, 2011]     Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.     As applicable to this case, Regulation Z--promulgated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) pursuant to its authority under the Truth in Lending Act (TILA), 82 Stat. 146, 15 U. S. C. §1601 et seq.--requires that issuers of credit cards provide cardholders with an "[i]nitial disclosure statement" specifying, inter alia, "each periodic rate" associated with the account. 12 CFR §226.6(a)(2) (2008). The regulation also imposes "[s]ubsequent disclosure requirements," including notice to cardholders "[w]henever any term required to be disclosed under §226.6 is changed." §226.9(c)(1). This case presents the question whether Regulation Z requires an issuer to notify a cardholder of an interest-rate increase instituted pursuant to a provision of the cardholder agreement giving the issuer discretion to increase the rate, up to a stated maximum, in the event of the cardholder's delinquency or default. We conclude that the version of Regulation Z applicable in this case does not require such notice.IA     Congress passed TILA to promote consumers' "informed use of credit" by requiring "meaningful disclosure of credit terms," 15 U. S. C. §1601(a), and granted the Board the authority to issue regulations to achieve TILA's purposes, §1604(a). Pursuant to this authority, the Board promulgated Regulation Z, which requires credit card issuers to disclose certain information to consumers.1 Two provisions of Regulation Z are at issue in this case. The first, 12 CFR §226.6, explains what information credit card issuers are obliged to provide to cardholders in the "[i]nitial disclosure statement," including "each periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge." §226.6(a)(2). The second, §226.9, imposes upon issuers certain "[s]ubsequent disclosure requirements," including a requirement to provide notice "[w]henever any term required to be disclosed under §226.6 is changed." §226.9(c)(1). As a general matter, notice of a change in terms has to be provided 15 days in advance of the effective date of the change. Ibid. When "a periodic rate or other finance charge is increased because of the consumer's delinquency or default," however, notice only need be given "before the effective date of the change." Ibid. Regulation Z also explains that no notice is required under §226.9 when the change in terms "results from ... the consumer's default or delinquency (other than an increase in the periodic rate or other finance charge)." §226.9(c)(2).     The official interpretation of Regulation Z (Official Staff Commentary or Commentary) promulgated by the Board explains these requirements further: Section 226.9(c)(1)'s notice-of-change requirement does not apply "if the specific change is set forth initially, such as ... an increase that occurs when the consumer has been under an agreement to maintain a certain balance in a savings account in order to keep a particular rate and the account balance falls below the specified minimum." 12 CFR pt. 226, Supp. I, Comment 9(c)-1, p. 506 (2008) (hereinafter Comment 9(c)-1). On the other hand, the Commentary explains, "notice must be given if the contract allows the creditor to increase the rate at its discretion but does not include specific terms for an increase (for example, when an increase may occur under the creditor's contract reservation right to increase the periodic rate)." Ibid. As to the timing requirements, the Commentary states: "[A] notice of change in terms is required, but it may be mailed or delivered as late as the effective date of the change . . . [i]f there is an increased periodic rate or any other finance charge attributable to the consumer's delinquency or default." Id., Comment 9(c)(1)-3, at 507 (hereinafter Comment 9(c)(1)-3).     At least as early as 2004, the Board began considering revisions to Regulation Z. The new regulations the Board eventually issued do not apply to the present case, but the details of their promulgation provides useful background in considering the parties' arguments with respect to the version of Regulation Z we address here. In 2004 the Board issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking announcing its intent to consider revisions. 69 Fed. Reg. 70925 (2004). In so doing, the Board described how it understood the notice requirements to function at that time:"[A]dvance notice is not required in all cases. For example, if the interest rate or other finance charge increases due to a consumer's default or delinquency, notice is required, but need not be given in advance. 12 CFR 226.9(c)(1); comment 9(c)(1)-3. And no change-in-terms notice is required if the creditor specifies in advance the circumstances under which an increase to the finance charge or an annual fee will occur. Comment 9(c)-1. For example, some credit card account agreements permit the card issuer to increase the interest rate if the consumer pays late . . . . Under Regulation Z, because the circumstances are specified in advance in the account agreement, the creditor need not provide a change-in-terms notice 15 days in advance of the increase; the new rate will appear on the periodic statement for the cycle in which the increase occurs." Id., at 70931-70932.The Board asked for public comment on whether these "existing disclosure rules" were "adequate to enable consumers to make timely decisions about how to manage their accounts." Id., at 70932.     Subsequently, in 2007, the Board published proposed amendments to Regulation Z and the Commentary. 72 Fed. Reg. 32948. One amendment would have required 45 days' advance written notice when "(i) [a] rate is increased due to the consumer's delinquency or default; or (ii) [a] rate is increased as a penalty for one or more events specified in the account agreement, such as making a late payment or obtaining an extension of credit that exceeds the credit limit." Id., at 33058 (proposed 12 CFR §226.9(g)). The Board explained that, under the amendments, "creditors would no longer be permitted to provide for the immediate application of penalty pricing upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the contract." 72 Fed. Reg. 33012.     In January 2009, the Board promulgated a final rule implementing many of the proposed changes, scheduled to be effective July 1, 2010. 74 Fed. Reg. 5244. Most saliently, the Board included a new provision, §226.9(g), which requires 45 days' advance notice of increases in rates due to cardholder delinquency or default, or as a penalty, including penalties for "events specified in the account agreement, such as making a late payment ... ." 12 CFR §226.9(g)(1)(2010). In May 2009, Congress enacted the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act (Credit CARD Act or Act), 123 Stat. 1734. The Act amended TILA, in relevant part, to require 45 days' advance notice of most increases in credit card annual percentage rates. 15 U. S. C. §1637(i) (2006 ed., Supp. III). Because the Credit CARD Act's notice requirements with respect to interest-rate increases largely mirror the requirements in the new version of the regulation, the Board changed the effective date of those requirements to August 20, 2009, to coincide with the statutory schedule. See 74 Fed. Reg. 36077-36079. The transactions giving rise to the dispute at issue in this case, however, arose prior to enactment of the Act and the promulgation of the new regulatory provisions.B     Respondent James A. McCoy brought this action in the Superior Court of Orange County, California on behalf of himself and others similarly situated against petitioner Chase Bank USA, N. A.; Chase removed the action to the United States District Court for the Central District of California under 28 U. S. C. §1441. At the time of the transactions at issue, McCoy was the holder of a credit card issued by Chase. The cardholder agreement between the parties (Agreement) provides, in relevant part, that McCoy is eligible for "Preferred rates," but that to keep such rates he has to meet certain conditions, including making "at least the required minimum payments when due on [his] Account and on all other loans or accounts with [Chase] and [his] other creditors." Brief for Respondent 8, n. 2; see also 559 F. 3d 963, 972, n. 1 (CA9 2009) (Cudahy, J., dissenting). If any of the conditions in the Agreement are not met, Chase reserves the right to "change [McCoy's] interest rate and impose a Non-Preferred rate up to the maximum Non-Preferred rate described in the Pricing Schedule" and to apply any changes "to existing as well as new balances ... effective with the billing cycle ending on the review date." Brief for Respondent 8, n. 2.     McCoy's complaint alleges that Chase increased his interest rate due to his delinquency or default, and applied that increase retroactively. McCoy asserts that the rate increase violates Regulation Z because, pursuant to the Agreement, Chase did not notify him of the increase until after it had taken effect.2 The District Court dismissed McCoy's complaint, holding that because the increase did not constitute a "change in terms" as contemplated by §226.9(c), Chase was not required to notify him of the increase before implementing it. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 37a-47a.     A divided panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed in relevant part, holding that Regulation Z requires issuers to provide notice of an interest-rate increase prior to its effective date. See 559 F. 3d, at 969. Concluding that the text of Regulation Z is ambiguous and that the agency commentary accompanying the 2004 request for comments and the 2007 proposed amendments favors neither party's interpretation, the court relied primarily on the Official Staff Commentary; in particular, the court noted that Comment 9(c)-1 requires no notice of a change in terms if the "specific change" at issue is set forth in the initial agreement. See id., at 965-967. The court found, however, that because the Agreement vests Chase with discretion to impose any Non-Preferred rate it chooses (up to the specified maximum) upon McCoy's default, the Agreement "provides McCoy with no basis for predicting in advance what retroactive interest rate Chase will choose to charge him if he defaults." Id., at 967. Accordingly, the court held that because the Agreement does not alert McCoy to the "specific change" that will occur if he defaults, Chase was obliged to give notice of that change prior to its effective date. Ibid. Relying primarily on the 2004 notice of proposed rulemaking and the 2007 proposed amendments, the dissenting judge concluded that Regulation Z does not require notice of an interest-rate increase in the circumstances of this case. See id., at 972-979 (opinion of Cudahy, J.).     After the Ninth Circuit's ruling, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit decided the same question in Chase's favor. See Shaner v. Chase Bank USA, N. A., 587 F. 3d 488 (2009). The First Circuit relied in part on an amicus brief submitted by the Board at the court's request, in which the agency advanced the same interpretation of Regulation Z that it now does before this Court. Id., at 493. We granted certiorari to resolve this division in authority.3 561 U. S. ___ (2010).II     In order to decide this case, we must determine whether an interest-rate increase constitutes a "change in terms" under Regulation Z, when the change is made pursuant to a provision in the cardholder agreement allowing the issuer to increase the rate, up to a stated maximum, in the event of the cardholder's delinquency or default. Accordingly, this case calls upon us to determine the meaning of a regulation promulgated by the Board under its statutory authority. The parties dispute the proper interpretation of the regulation itself, as well as whether we should accord deference to the Board's interpretation of its regulation. As explained below, we conclude that the text of the regulation is ambiguous, and that deference is warranted to the interpretation of that text advanced by the Board in its amicus brief.A     Our analysis begins with the text of Regulation Z in effect at the time this dispute arose. First, §226.6 requires an "[i]nitial disclosure statement":     "The creditor shall disclose to the consumer, in terminology consistent with that to be used on the periodic statement, each of the following items, to the extent applicable:      "(a) Finance charge. The circumstances under which a finance charge will be imposed and an explanation of how it will be determined, as follows:.?????.?????.?????.?????.      "(2) A disclosure of each periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge, the range of balances to which it is applicable, and the corresponding annual percentage rate. When different periodic rates apply to different types of transactions, the types of transactions to which the periodic rates apply shall also be disclosed." (Footnotes omitted.)Second, §226.9(c) requires certain "[s]ubsequent disclosure requirements":     "Change in terms--(1) Written notice required. Whenever any term required to be disclosed under §226.6 is changed or the required minimum periodic payment is increased, the creditor shall mail or deliver written notice of the change to each consumer who may be affected. The notice shall be mailed or delivered at least 15 days prior to the effective date of the change. The 15-day timing requirement does not apply if the change has been agreed to by the consumer, or if a periodic rate or other finance charge is increased because of the consumer's delinquency or default; the notice shall be given, however, before the effective date of the change.      "(2) Notice not required. No notice under this section is required when the change ... results from ... the consumer's default or delinquency (other than an increase in the periodic rate or other finance charge)."     The question is whether the increase in McCoy's interest rate constitutes a change to a "term required to be disclosed under §226.6," requiring a subsequent disclosure under §226.9(c)(1). One of the initial terms that must be disclosed under §226.6 is "each periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge ... and the corresponding annual percentage rate." §226.6(a)(2). McCoy argues that, because an increase in the interest rate increases the "periodic rate" applicable to his account, such an increase constitutes a change in terms within the meaning of §226.9(c)(1). As further support, McCoy points to two provisions in §226.9(c): first, that notice of an increase in the interest rate must be provided "before the effective date of the change" when the increase is due to "the consumer's delinquency or default," §226.9(c)(1); and second, that no notice is required of a change resulting "from the consumer's default or delinquency (other than an increase in the periodic rate or other finance charge)," §226.9(c)(2). Accordingly, because §226.9(c) includes interest-rate increases due to delinquency or default, McCoy argues that the plain text of the regulation indicates that a change in the periodic rate due to such default is a "change in terms" requiring notice under §226.9(c)(1).     We recognize that McCoy's argument has some force; read in isolation, the language quoted above certainly suggests that credit card issuers must provide notice of an interest-rate increase imposed pursuant to cardholder delinquency or default. But McCoy's analysis begs the key question: whether the increase actually changed a "term" of the Agreement that was "required to be disclosed under §226.6." If not, §226.9(c)'s subsequent notice requirement with respect to a "change in terms" does not apply. Chase argues precisely this: The increase did not change a term in the Agreement, but merely implemented one that had been initially disclosed, as required. This interpretation, though not commanded by the text of the regulation, is reasonable. Section 226.6(a)(2) requires initial disclosure of "each periodic rate that may be used to compute the finance charge." The Agreement itself discloses both the initial rate (Preferred rate) and the maximum rate to be imposed in the event of default (Non-Preferred rate). See Brief for Respondent 8, n. 2; Brief for Petitioner 13-14.4 Accordingly, it is plausible to understand the Agreement to initially disclose "each periodic rate" to be applied to the account, and Chase arguably did not "change" those rates as a result of McCoy's default. Instead, Chase merely implemented the previously disclosed term specifying the Non-Preferred rate.5     This reading still leaves the question why §226.9(c)(1) refers to interest-rate increases resulting from delinquency or default if such increases do not constitute a "change in terms." One reasonable explanation Chase offers is that §226.9(c)(1) refers to interest-rate increases that were not specifically outlined in the agreement's initial terms (unlike those in the present Agreement). For example, credit card agreements routinely include a "reservation of rights" provision giving the issuer discretion to change the terms of the contract, often as a means of responding to events that raise doubts about the cardholder's creditworthiness. An issuer may exercise this general contract-modification authority and raise the interest rate applicable to the account to address any heightened risk. See Brief for Petitioner 6. In such a case, §226.9(c)(1) is best read to require that notice must be given prior to the effective date of the increase, because the unilateral increase instituted by the issuer actually changed a term--the interest rate--in a manner not specifically contemplated by the agreement.6 See Comment 9(c)-1 (providing that notice is required if the agreement "does not include specific terms for an increase (for example, when an increase may occur under the creditor's contract reservation right to increase the periodic rate)").     In short, Regulation Z is unclear with respect to the crucial interpretive question: whether the interest-rate increase at issue in this case constitutes a "change in terms" requiring notice. We need not decide which party's interpretation is more persuasive, however; both are plausible, and the text alone does not permit a more definitive reading. Accordingly, we find Regulation Z to be ambiguous as to the question presented, and must therefore look to the Board's own interpretation of the regulation for guidance in deciding this case. See Coeur Alaska, Inc. v. Southeast Alaska Conservation Council, 557 U. S. ___, ___ (2009) (slip op., at 14) (stating that when an agency's regulations construing a statute "are ambiguous ... we next turn to the agencies' subsequent interpretation of those regulations" for guidance); Ford Motor Credit Co. v. Milhollin, 444 U. S. 555, 560 (1980) (stating that when the question presented "is not governed by clear expression in the ... regulation ... it is appropriate to defer to the Federal Reserve Board and staff in determining what resolution of that issue" is appropriate).B     The Board has made clear in the amicus brief it has submitted to this Court that, in the Board's view, Chase was not required to give McCoy notice of the interest rate increase under the version of Regulation Z applicable at the time. Under Auer v. Robbins, 519 U. S. 452 (1997), we defer to an agency's interpretation of its own regulation, advanced in a legal brief, unless that interpretation is "plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation." Id., at 461 (internal quotation marks omitted). Because the interpretation the Board presents in its brief is consistent with the regulatory text, we need look no further in deciding this case.7     In its brief to this Court, the Board explains that the Ninth Circuit "erred in concluding that, at the time of the transactions at issue in this case, Regulation Z required credit card issuers to provide a change-in-terms notice before implementing a contractual default-rate provision." See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 11; see also ibid. (stating that when a term of an agreement authorized the credit provider "to increase a consumer's interest rate if the consumer failed to make timely payments . . . any resulting rate increase did not represent a 'change in terms,' but rather the implementation of terms already set forth in the initial disclosure statement"); id., at 15-16 (stating that "[w]hen a cardholder agreement identifies a contingency that triggers a rate increase, and the maximum possible rate that the issuer may charge if that contingency occurs," then "no change-in-terms notice is required" under Regulation Z).8 Under the principles set forth in Auer, we give deference to this interpretation.     In Auer we deferred to the Secretary of Labor's interpretation of his own regulation, presented in an amicus brief submitted by the agency at our invitation. 519 U. S., at 461-462. Responding to the petitioners' objection that the agency's interpretation came in a legal brief, we held that this fact did not, "in the circumstances of this case, make it unworthy of deference." Id., at 462. We observed that "[t]he Secretary's position is in no sense a 'post hoc rationalizatio[n]' advanced by an agency seeking to defend past agency action against attack." Ibid. (quoting Bowen v. Georgetown Univ. Hospital, 488 U. S. 204, 212 (1988)). We added: "There is simply no reason to suspect that the interpretation does not reflect the agency's fair and considered judgment on the matter in question." Auer, 519 U. S., at 462.     The brief submitted by the Board in the present case, at our invitation, is no different. As in Auer, there is no reason to believe that the interpretation advanced by the Board is a "post hoc rationalization" taken as a litigation position. The Board is not a party to this case. And as is evident from our discussion of Regulation Z itself, see Part II-A, supra, the Board's interpretation is neither "plainly erroneous" nor "inconsistent with" the indeterminate text of the regulation. In short, there is no reason to suspect that the position the Board takes in its amicus brief reflects anything other than the agency's fair and considered judgment as to what the regulation required at the time this dispute arose.     McCoy may well be correct in asserting that it is better policy to oblige credit-card issuers to give advance notice of a rate increase; after all, both Congress and the Board have recently indicated that such a requirement is warranted. See Credit CARD Act, §101(a)(1), 123 Stat. 1735-1736; 12 CFR §226.9(g) (2009). That Congress and the Board may currently hold such views does not mean, however, that deference is not warranted to the Board's different understanding of what the pre-2009 version of Regulation Z required. To the contrary, the interpretation the Board advances in its amicus brief is entirely consistent with its past views. The 2004 notice of rulemaking and the 2007 proposed amendments to Regulation Z make clear that, prior to 2009, the Board's fair and considered judgment was that "no change-in-terms notice is required if the creditor specifies in advance the circumstances under which an increase ... will occur," 69 Fed. Reg. 70931, and "immediate application of penalty pricing upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the contract" was permissible, 72 Fed. Reg. 33012.     Under Auer, therefore, it is clear that deference to the interpretation in the Board's amicus brief is warranted. The cases McCoy cites in which we declined to apply Auer do not suggest that deference is unwarranted here. In Gonzales v. Oregon, 546 U. S. 243 (2006), we declined to defer because--in sharp contrast to the present case-the regulation in question did "little more than restate the terms of the statute" pursuant to which the regulation was promulgated. Id., at 257. Accordingly, no deference was warranted to an agency interpretation of what were, in fact, Congress' words. Ibid. In contrast, at the time of the transactions in this case, TILA itself included no requirements with respect to the disclosure of a change in credit terms. In Christensen v. Harris County, 529 U. S. 576 (2000), we declined to apply Auer deference because the regulation in question was unambiguous, and adopting the agency's contrary interpretation would "permit the agency, under the guise of interpreting a regulation, to create de facto a new regulation." 529 U. S., at 588. In light of Regulation Z's ambiguity, there is no such danger here. And our statement in Christensen that "deference is warranted only when the language of the regulation is ambiguous," ibid., is perfectly consonant with Auer itself; if the text of a regulation is unambiguous, a conflicting agency interpretation advanced in an amicus brief will necessarily be "plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation" in question. Auer, 519 U. S., at 461 (internal quotation marks omitted). Accordingly, under our precedent deference to the Board's interpretation of its own regulation, as presented in the agency's amicus brief, is wholly appropriate.C     McCoy further argues that deference to a legal brief is inappropriate because the interpretation of Regulation Z in the Official Staff Commentary commands a different result. To be sure, the Official Staff Commentary promulgated by the Board as an interpretation of Regulation Z may warrant deference as a general matter. See Anderson Bros. Ford v. Valencia, 452 U. S. 205, 219 (1981) (holding that "the Board's interpretation of its own regulation" should generally "be accepted by the courts"); Milhollin, 444 U. S., at 565 ("Unless demonstrably irrational, Federal Reserve Board staff opinions construing [TILA] or Regulation [Z] should be dispositive"). We find, however, that the Commentary at issue here largely replicates the ambiguity present in the regulatory text, and therefore it offers us nothing to which we can defer with respect to the precise interpretive question before us.9 Cf. Smith v. City of Jackson, 544 U. S. 228, 248 (2005) (O'Connor, J., concurring in judgment) (noting that deference is not warranted when "there is no reasoned agency reading of the text to which we might defer").     The Ninth Circuit relied primarily on Comment 9(c)(1)-3, which states in relevant part that "a notice of change in terms is required, but it may be mailed or delivered as late as the effective date of the change . . . [i]f there is an increased periodic rate or any other finance charge attributable to the consumer's delinquency or default." This exposition of the regulation does not add any clarity to the regulatory text, which expresses the same requirement. See §226.9(c)(1) (2008) ("[I]f a periodic rate or other finance charge is increased because of the consumer's delinquency or default ... notice shall be given ... before the effective date of the change"). And like §226.9(c), Comment 9(c) is entitled "Change in terms." Accordingly, Chase's plausible interpretation of §226.9(c)(1) is equally applicable to Comment 9(c)(1)-3: On Chase's view, because the interest-rate increase at issue in this case did not constitute a "change in terms," the disclosure requirements in the regulation and Commentary simply do not come into play. See supra, at 10-11.     Comment 9(c)-1 is also ambiguous, though the most plausible reading supports Chase's position more than it does McCoy's. The Comment begins: "No notice of a change in terms need be given if the specific change is set forth initially" in the agreement. We do not find that the Comment's addition of the modifier "specific" to the word "change" enables us to determine, any more than we could in light of the text of the regulation, see supra, at 12, whether the interest-rate increase at issue in this case was a "change in terms" requiring notice. According to Chase, as long as the agreement explains that delinquency or default might trigger an increased interest rate and states the maximum level to which the rate could be increased, the "specific change" that ensues upon default has been set forth initially and no additional notice is required before implementation. McCoy argues to the contrary: Under Comment 9(c)-1, any new rate imposed after delinquency or default must be disclosed prior to the effective date, if the particular rate (rather than the maximum rate) was not specifically mentioned in the agreement. On the whole, then, the Official Staff Commentary's explanation of Regulation Z does not resolve the uncertainty in the regulatory text, and offers us no reason to disregard the interpretation advanced in the Board's amicus brief.10     McCoy further contends that our reliance here on an agency interpretation presented outside the four corners of the Official Staff Commentary will require future litigants, as well as the Board, to expend time and resources "to comb through ... correspondence, publications, and the agency's website to determine the agency's position." Brief for Respondent 37-38. We are not convinced. McCoy may be correct that the Board established the Official Staff Commentary so as to centralize its opinion-making process and avoid "overburdening the industry with excessive detail and multiple research sources." 46 Fed. Reg. 50288. But his suggestion that, if we accord deference to an amicus brief, all other "unofficial" sources will be fair game is of no moment. Today we decide only that the amicus brief submitted by the Board is entitled to deference in light of "the circumstances of this case." Auer, 519 U. S., at 462.     Accordingly, we conclude that, at the time of the transactions at issue in this case, Regulation Z did not require Chase to provide McCoy with a change-in-terms notice before it implemented the Agreement term allowing it to raise his interest rate following delinquency or default.*??*??*     For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.FOOTNOTESFive years after the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) first approved metoclopramide, a drug commonly used to treat digestive tract problems, under the brand name Reglan, generic manufacturers such as petitioners also began producing the drug. Because of accumulating evidence that long-term metoclopramide use can cause tardive dyskinesia, a severe neurological disorder, warning labels for the drug have been strengthened and clarified several times, most recently in 2009.          Respondents were prescribed Reglan in 2001 and 2002, but both received the generic drug from their pharmacists. After taking the drug as prescribed for several years, both developed tardive dyskinesia. In separate state-court tort actions, they sued petitioners, the generic drug manufacturers that produced the metoclopramide they took (Manufacturers). Each respondent alleged, inter alia, that long-term metoclopramide use caused her disorder and that the Manufacturers were liable under state tort law for failing to provide adequate warning labels. In both suits, the Manufacturers urged that federal statutes and FDA regulations pre-empted the state tort claims by requiring the same safety and efficacy labeling for generic metoclopramide as was mandated at the time for Reglan. The Fifth and Eighth Circuits rejected these arguments, holding that respondents' claims were not pre-empted.Held: The judgment is reversed, and the cases are remanded.588 F. 3d 603 and 593 F. 3d 428, reversed and remanded.     Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to all but Part III-B-2, concluding that federal drug regulations applicable to generic drug manufacturers directly conflict with, and thus pre-empt, these state claims. Pp. 4-14, 17-20.     (a) Because pre-emption analysis requires a comparison between federal and state law, the Court begins by identifying the state tort duties and federal labeling requirements applicable to the Manufacturers. Pp. 4-10.          (1) State tort law requires a manufacturer that is, or should be, aware of its drug's danger to label it in a way that renders it reasonably safe. Respondents pleaded that the Manufacturers knew, or should have known, both that the long-term use of their products carried a high risk of tardive dyskinesia and that their labels did not adequately warn of that risk. Taking these allegations as true, the state-law duty required the Manufacturers to use a different, stronger label than the one they actually used. Pp. 4-5.          (2) On the other hand, federal drug regulations, as interpreted by the FDA, prevented the Manufacturers from independently changing their generic drugs' safety labels. A manufacturer seeking federal approval to market a new drug must prove that it is safe and effective and that the proposed label is accurate and adequate. Although the same rules originally applied to all drugs, the 1984 law commonly called the Hatch-Waxman Amendments allows a generic drug manufacturer to gain FDA approval simply by showing that its drug is equivalent to an already-approved brand-name drug, and that the safety and efficacy labeling proposed for its drug is the same as that approved for the brand-name drug. Respondents contend that federal law nevertheless provides avenues through which the Manufacturers could have altered their metoclopramide labels in time to prevent the injuries here. These include: (1) the FDA's "changes-being-effected" (CBE) process, which permits drug manufacturers, without preapproval, to add or strengthen a warning label; and (2) sending "Dear Doctor" letters providing additional warnings to prescribing physicians and other healthcare professionals. However, the FDA denies that the Manufacturers could have used either of these processes to unilaterally strengthen their warning labels. The Court defers to the FDA's views because they are not plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulations, and there is no other reason to doubt that they reflect the FDA's fair and considered judgment. Auer v. Robbins, 519 U. S. 452, 461, 462. Assuming, without deciding, that the FDA is correct that federal law nevertheless required the Manufacturers to ask for the agency's assistance in convincing the brand-name manufacturer to adopt a stronger label, the Court turns to the pre-emption question. Pp. 5-10.     (b) Where state and federal law directly conflict, state law must give way. See, e.g., Wyeth v. Levine, 555 U. S. 555, 583. Such a conflict exists where it is "impossible for a private party to comply with both state and federal requirements." Freightliner Corp. v. Myrick, 514 U. S. 280, 287. Pp. 11-14, 17-20.          (1) The Court finds impossibility here. If the Manufacturers had independently changed their labels to satisfy their state-law duty to attach a safer label to their generic metoclopramide, they would have violated the federal requirement that generic drug labels be the same as the corresponding brand-name drug labels. Thus, it was impossible for them to comply with both state and federal law. And even if they had fulfilled their federal duty to ask for FDA help in strengthening the corresponding brand-name label, assuming such a duty exists, they would not have satisfied their state tort-law duty. State law demanded a safer label; it did not require communication with the FDA about the possibility of a safer label. Pp. 11-12.          (2) The Court rejects the argument that the Manufacturers' pre-emption defense fails because they failed to ask the FDA for help in changing the corresponding brand-name label. The proper question for "impossibility" analysis is whether the private party could independently do under federal law what state law requires of it. See Wyeth, supra, at 573. Accepting respondents' argument would render conflict pre-emption largely meaningless by making most conflicts between state and federal law illusory. In these cases, it is possible that, had the Manufacturers asked the FDA for help, they might have eventually been able to strengthen their warning label. But it is also possible that they could have convinced the FDA to reinterpret its regulations in a manner that would have opened the CBE process to them, persuaded the FDA to rewrite its generic drug regulations entirely, or talked Congress into amending the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. If these conjectures sufficed to prevent federal and state law from conflicting, it is unclear when, outside of express pre-emption, the Supremacy Clause would have any force. That Clause--which makes federal law "the supreme Law of the Land ... any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding," U. S. Const., Art. VI, cl. 2--cannot be read to permit an approach to pre-emption that renders conflict pre-emption all but meaningless. Here, it is enough to hold that when a party cannot satisfy its state duties without the Federal Government's special permission and assistance, which is dependent on the exercise of judgment by a federal agency, that party cannot independently satisfy those state duties for pre-emption purposes. Pp. 12-14, 17.          (3) Wyeth is not to the contrary. The Court there held that a state tort action against a brand-name drug manufacturer for failure to provide an adequate warning label was not pre-empted because it was possible for the manufacturer to comply with both state and federal law under the FDA's CBE regulation. 555 U. S., at 572-573. The federal statutes and regulations that apply to brand-name drug manufacturers differ, by Congress' design, from those applicable to generic drug manufacturers. And different federal statutes and regulations may, as here, lead to different pre-emption results. This Court will not distort the Supremacy Clause in order to create similar pre-emption across a dissimilar statutory scheme. Congress and the FDA retain authority to change the law and regulations if they so desire. Pp. 17-20.     Thomas, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, except as to Part III-B-2. Roberts, C. J., and Scalia and Alito, JJ., joined that opinion in full, and Kennedy, J., joined as to all but Part III-B-2. Sotomayor, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Ginsburg, Breyer, and Kagan, JJ., joined.PLIVA, INC., et al., PETITIONERS09-993     v.GLADYS MENSINGACTAVIS ELIZABETH, LLC, PETITIONER09-1039     v.GLADYS MENSINGACTAVIS, INC., PETITIONER09-1501     v.JULIE DEMAHYon writs of certiorari to the united states courts of appeals for the eighth and fifth circuits[June 23, 2011]     Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court, ex-cept as to Part III-B-2.**     These consolidated lawsuits involve state tort-law claims based on certain drug manufacturers' alleged failure to provide adequate warning labels for generic metoclopramide. The question presented is whether federal drug regulations applicable to generic drug manufacturers directly conflict with, and thus pre-empt, these state-law claims. We hold that they do.I     Metoclopramide is a drug designed to speed the movement of food through the digestive system. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) first approved metoclopramide tablets, under the brand name Reglan, in 1980. Five years later, generic manufacturers also began producing meto-clopramide. The drug is commonly used to treat digestive tract problems such as diabetic gastroparesis and gastroesophageal reflux disorder.     Evidence has accumulated that long-term metoclopramide use can cause tardive dyskinesia, a severe neurological disorder. Studies have shown that up to 29% of patients who take metoclopramide for several years develop this condition. McNeil v. Wyeth, 462 F. 3d 364, 370, n. 5 (CA5 2006); see also Shaffer, Butterfield, Pamer, & Mackey, Tardive Dyskinesia Risks and Metoclopramide Use Before and After U. S. Market Withdrawal of Cisapride, 44 J. Am. Pharmacists Assn. 661, 663 (2004) (noting 87 cases of metoclopramide-related tardive dyskinesia reported to the FDA's adverse event reporting system by mid-2003).     Accordingly, warning labels for the drug have been strengthened and clarified several times. In 1985, the label was modified to warn that "tardive dyskinesia ... may develop in patients treated with metoclopramide," and the drug's package insert added that "[t]herapy longer than 12 weeks has not been evaluated and cannot be recommended." Physician's Desk Reference 1635-1636 (41st ed. 1987); see also Brief for Petitioner PLIVA et al. 21-22 (hereinafter PLIVA Brief). In 2004, the brand-name Reglan manufacturer requested, and the FDA approved, a label change to add that "[t]herapy should not exceed 12 weeks in duration." Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 8 (hereinafter U. S. Brief). And in 2009, the FDA ordered a black box warning--its strongest--which states: "Treatment with metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia, a serious movement disorder that is often irreversible... . Treatment with metoclopramide for longer than 12 weeks should be avoided in all but rare cases." See Physician's Desk Reference 2902 (65th ed. 2011).     Gladys Mensing and Julie Demahy, the plaintiffs in these consolidated cases, were prescribed Reglan in 2001 and 2002, respectively. Both received generic metoclopramide from their pharmacists. After taking the drug as prescribed for several years, both women developed tardive dyskinesia.     In separate suits, Mensing and Demahy sued the generic drug manufacturers that produced the metoclopramide they took (Manufacturers). Each alleged, as relevant here, that long-term metoclopramide use caused her tar-dive dyskinesia and that the Manufacturers were liable under state tort law (specifically, that of Minnesota and Louisiana) for failing to provide adequate warning labels. They claimed that "despite mounting evidence that long term metoclopramide use carries a risk of tardive dyskinesia far greater than that indicated on the label," none of the Manufacturers had changed their labels to adequately warn of that danger. Mensing v. Wyeth, Inc., 588 F. 3d 603, 605 (CA8 2009); see also Demahy v. Actavis, Inc., 593 F. 3d 428, 430 (CA5 2010).     In both suits, the Manufacturers urged that federal law pre-empted the state tort claims. According to the Manufacturers, federal statutes and FDA regulations required them to use the same safety and efficacy labeling as their brand-name counterparts. This means, they argued, that it was impossible to simultaneously comply with both federal law and any state tort-law duty that required them to use a different label.     The Courts of Appeals for the Fifth and Eighth Circuits rejected the Manufacturers' arguments and held that Men-sing and Demahy's claims were not pre-empted. See 588 F. 3d, at 614; 593 F. 3d, at 449. We granted certiorari, 562 U. S. ___ (2010), consolidated the cases, and now reverse each.II     Pre-emption analysis requires us to compare federal and state law. We therefore begin by identifying the state tort duties and federal labeling requirements applicable to the Manufacturers.A     It is undisputed that Minnesota and Louisiana tort law require a drug manufacturer that is or should be aware of its product's danger to label that product in a way that renders it reasonably safe. Under Minnesota law, which applies to Mensing's lawsuit, "where the manufacturer ... of a product has actual or constructive knowledge of danger to users, the ... manufacturer has a duty to give warning of such dangers." Frey v. Montgomery Ward & Co., 258 N. W. 2d 782, 788 (Minn. 1977). Similarly, under Louisiana law applicable to Demahy's lawsuit, "a manufacturer's duty to warn includes a duty to provide adequate instructions for safe use of a product." Stahl v. Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp., 283 F. 3d 254, 269-270 (CA5 2002); see also La. Rev. Stat. Ann. §9:2800.57 (West 2009). In both States, a duty to warn falls specifically on the manufacturer. See Marks v. OHMEDA, Inc., 2003-1446, pp. 8-9 (La. App. 3/31/04), 871 So. 2d 1148, 1155; Gray v. Badger Min. Corp., 676 N. W. 2d 268, 274 (Minn. 2004).     Mensing and Demahy have pleaded that the Manufacturers knew or should have known of the high risk of tardive dyskinesia inherent in the long-term use of their product. They have also pleaded that the Manufacturers knew or should have known that their labels did not adequately warn of that risk. App. 437-438, 67-69, 94-96. The parties do not dispute that, if these allegations are true, state law required the Manufacturers to use a different, safer label.B     Federal law imposes far more complex drug labeling requirements. We begin with what is not in dispute. Under the 1962 Drug Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 76 Stat. 780, 21 U. S. C. §301 et seq., a manufacturer seeking federal approval to market a new drug must prove that it is safe and effective and that the proposed label is accurate and adequate.1 See, e.g., 21 U. S. C. §§355(b)(1), (d); Wyeth v. Levine, 555 U. S. 555, 567 (2009). Meeting those requirements involves costly and lengthy clinical testing. §§355(b)(1)(A), (d); see also D. Beers, Generic and Innovator Drugs: A Guide to FDA Approval Requirements §2.02[A] (7th ed. 2008).     Originally, the same rules applied to all drugs. In 1984, however, Congress passed the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act, 98 Stat. 1585, commonly called the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. Under this law, "generic drugs" can gain FDA approval simply by showing equivalence to a reference listed drug that has already been approved by the FDA.2 21 U. S. C. §355(j)(2)(A). This allows manufacturers to develop generic drugs in-expensively, without duplicating the clinical trials already performed on the equivalent brand-name drug. A generic drug application must also "show that the [safety and efficacy] labeling proposed ... is the same as the labeling approved for the [brand-name] drug." §355(j)(2)(A)(v); see also §355(j)(4)(G); Beers §§3.01, 3.03[A].     As a result, brand-name and generic drug manufacturers have different federal drug labeling duties. A brand-name manufacturer seeking new drug approval is responsible for the accuracy and adequacy of its label. See, e.g., 21 U. S. C. §§355(b)(1), (d); Wyeth, supra, at 570-571. A manufacturer seeking generic drug approval, on the other hand, is responsible for ensuring that its warning label is the same as the brand name's. See, e.g., §355(j)(2)(A)(v); §355(j)(4)(G); 21 CFR §§314.94(a)(8), 314.127(a)(7).     The parties do not disagree. What is in dispute is whether, and to what extent, generic manufacturers may change their labels after initial FDA approval. Mensing and Demahy contend that federal law provided several avenues through which the Manufacturers could have altered their metoclopramide labels in time to prevent the injuries here. The FDA, however, tells us that it interprets its regulations to require that the warning labels of a brand-name drug and its generic copy must always be the same--thus, generic drug manufacturers have an ongoing federal duty of "sameness." U. S. Brief 16; see also 57 Fed. Reg. 17961 (1992) ("[T]he [generic drug's] labeling must be the same as the listed drug product's labeling because the listed drug product is the basis for [generic drug] ap-proval"). The FDA's views are "controlling unless plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation[s]" or there is any other reason to doubt that they reflect the FDA's fair and considered judgment. Auer v. Robbins, 519 U. S. 452, 461, 462 (1997) (internal quotation marks omitted).31     First, Mensing and Demahy urge that the FDA's "changes-being-effected" (CBE) process allowed the Manufacturers to change their labels when necessary. See Brief for Respondents 33-35; see also 593 F. 3d, at 439-444; Gaeta v. Perrigo Pharmaceuticals Co., 630 F. 3d 1225, 1231 (CA9 2011); Foster v. American Home Prods. Corp., 29 F. 3d 165, 170 (CA4 1994). The CBE process permits drug manufacturers to "add or strengthen a contraindication, warning, [or] precaution," 21 CFR §314.70(c)(6)(iii)(A) (2006), or to "add or strengthen an instruction about dosage and administration that is intended to increase the safe use of the drug product," §314.70(c)(6)(iii)(C). When making labeling changes using the CBE process, drug man-ufacturers need not wait for preapproval by the FDA, which ordinarily is necessary to change a label. Wyeth, supra, at 568. They need only simultaneously file a supplemental application with the FDA. 21 CFR §314.70(c)(6).     The FDA denies that the Manufacturers could have used the CBE process to unilaterally strengthen their warning labels. The agency interprets the CBE regulation to allow changes to generic drug labels only when a generic drug manufacturer changes its label to match an updated brand-name label or to follow the FDA's instructions. U. S. Brief 15, 16, n. 7 (interpreting 21 CFR §314.94(a)(8)(iv)); U. S. Brief 16, n. 8. The FDA argues that CBE changes unilaterally made to strengthen a generic drug's warning label would violate the statutes and regulations requiring a generic drug's label to match its brand-name counterpart's. Id., at 15-16; see also 21 U. S. C. §355(j)(4)(G); 21 CFR §§314.94(a)(8)(iii), 314.150(b)(10) (approval may be withdrawn if the generic drug's label "is no longer consistent with that for [the brand-name]").     We defer to the FDA's interpretation of its CBE and generic labeling regulations. Although Mensing and Demahy offer other ways to interpret the regulations, see Brief for Respondents 33-35, we do not find the agency's interpretation "plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation." Auer, supra, at 461 (internal quotation marks omitted). Nor do Mensing and Demahy suggest there is any other reason to doubt the agency's reading. We therefore conclude that the CBE process was not open to the Manufacturers for the sort of change required by state law.2     Next, Mensing and Demahy contend that the Manufacturers could have used "Dear Doctor" letters to send ad-ditional warnings to prescribing physicians and other healthcare professionals. See Brief for Respondents 36; 21 CFR §200.5. Again, the FDA disagrees, and we defer to the agency's views.     The FDA argues that Dear Doctor letters qualify as "labeling." U. S. Brief 18; see also 21 U. S. C. §321(m); 21 CFR §202.1(l)(2). Thus, any such letters must be "consistent with and not contrary to [the drug's] approved ... labeling." 21 CFR §201.100(d)(1). A Dear Doctor letter that contained substantial new warning information would not be consistent with the drug's approved labeling. Moreover, if generic drug manufacturers, but not the brand-name manufacturer, sent such letters, that would inaccurately imply a therapeutic difference between the brand and generic drugs and thus could be impermissibly "misleading." U. S. Brief 19; see 21 CFR §314.150(b)(3) (FDA may withdraw approval of a generic drug if "the labeling of the drug ... is false or misleading in any particular").     As with the CBE regulation, we defer to the FDA. Mensing and Demahy offer no argument that the FDA's interpretation is plainly erroneous. See Auer, 519 U. S., at 461. Accordingly, we conclude that federal law did not permit the Manufacturers to issue additional warnings through Dear Doctor letters.3     Though the FDA denies that the Manufacturers could have used the CBE process or Dear Doctor letters to strengthen their warning labels, the agency asserts that a different avenue existed for changing generic drug labels. According to the FDA, the Manufacturers could have proposed--indeed, were required to propose--stronger warning labels to the agency if they believed such warnings were needed. U. S. Brief 20; 57 Fed. Reg. 17961. If the FDA had agreed that a label change was necessary, it would have worked with the brand-name manufacturer to create a new label for both the brand-name and generic drug. Ibid.     The agency traces this duty to 21 U. S. C. §352(f)(2), which provides that a drug is "misbranded ... [u]nless its labeling bears ... adequate warnings against ... unsafe dosage or methods or duration of administration or application, in such manner and form, as are necessary for the protection of users." See U. S. Brief 12. By regulation, the FDA has interpreted that statute to require that "labeling shall be revised to include a warning as soon as there is reasonable evidence of an association of a serious hazard with a drug." 21 CFR §201.57(e).     According to the FDA, these requirements apply to ge-neric drugs. As it explains, a " 'central premise of federal drug regulation is that the manufacturer bears responsibility for the content of its label at all times.' " U. S. Brief 12-13 (quoting Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 570-571). The FDA reconciles this duty to have adequate and accurate labeling with the duty of sameness in the following way: Generic drug manufacturers that become aware of safety problems must ask the agency to work toward strengthening the label that applies to both the generic and brand-name equivalent drug. U. S. Brief 20.     The Manufacturers and the FDA disagree over whether this alleged duty to request a strengthened label actually existed. The FDA argues that it explained this duty in the preamble to its 1992 regulations implementing the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. Ibid.; see 57 Fed. Reg. 17961 ("If a [generic drug manufacturer] believes new safety information should be added to a product's labeling, it should contact FDA, and FDA will determine whether the labeling for the generic and listed drugs should be revised"). The Manufacturers claim that the FDA's 19-year-old statement did not create a duty, and that there is no evi-dence of any generic drug manufacturer ever acting pursuant to any such duty. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 19-24; Reply Brief for Petitioner PLIVA et al. 18-22. Because we ultimately find pre-emption even assuming such a duty existed, we do not resolve the matter.C     To summarize, the relevant state and federal requirements are these: State tort law places a duty directly on all drug manufacturers to adequately and safely label their products. Taking Mensing and Demahy's allegations as true, this duty required the Manufacturers to use a different, stronger label than the label they actually used. Federal drug regulations, as interpreted by the FDA, prevented the Manufacturers from independently changing their generic drugs' safety labels. But, we assume, federal law also required the Manufacturers to ask for FDA assistance in convincing the brand-name manufacturer to adopt a stronger label, so that all corresponding generic drug manufacturers could do so as well. We turn now to the question of pre-emption.III     The Supremacy Clause establishes that federal law "shall be the supreme Law of the Land ... any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding." U. S. Const., Art. VI, cl. 2. Where state and federal law "directly conflict," state law must give way. Wyeth, supra, at 583 (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment); see also Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council, 530 U. S. 363, 372 (2000) ("[S]tate law is naturally preempted to the extent of any conflict with a federal statute"). We have held that state and federal law conflict where it is "impossible for a private party to comply with both state and federal requirements."4 Freightliner Corp. v. Myrick, 514 U. S. 280, 287 (1995) (internal quotation marks omitted).5A     We find impossibility here. It was not lawful under federal law for the Manufacturers to do what state law required of them. And even if they had fulfilled their federal duty to ask for FDA assistance, they would not have satisfied the requirements of state law.     If the Manufacturers had independently changed their labels to satisfy their state-law duty, they would have violated federal law. Taking Mensing and Demahy's allegations as true, state law imposed on the Manufac-turers a duty to attach a safer label to their generic metoclopramide. Federal law, however, demanded that ge-neric drug labels be the same at all times as the corres-ponding brand-name drug labels. See, e.g., 21 CFR §314.150(b)(10). Thus, it was impossible for the Manufacturers to comply with both their state-law duty to change the label and their federal law duty to keep the label the same.     The federal duty to ask the FDA for help in strengthening the corresponding brand-name label, assuming such a duty exists, does not change this analysis. Although requesting FDA assistance would have satisfied the Man-ufacturers' federal duty, it would not have satisfied their state tort-law duty to provide adequate labeling. State law demanded a safer label; it did not instruct the Manufacturers to communicate with the FDA about the possibility of a safer label. Indeed, Mensing and Demahy deny that their state tort claims are based on the Manufacturers' alleged failure to ask the FDA for assistance in changing the labels. Brief for Respondents 53-54; cf. Buckman Co. v. Plaintiffs' Legal Comm., 531 U. S. 341 (2001) (holding that federal drug and medical device laws pre-empted a state tort-law claim based on failure to properly communicate with the FDA).B1     Mensing and Demahy contend that, while their state-law claims do not turn on whether the Manufacturers asked the FDA for assistance in changing their labels, the Manufacturers' federal affirmative defense of pre-emption does. Mensing and Demahy argue that if the Manufacturers had asked the FDA for help in changing the corresponding brand-name label, they might eventually have been able to accomplish under federal law what state law requires. That is true enough. The Manufacturers "freely concede" that they could have asked the FDA for help. PLIVA Brief 48. If they had done so, and if the FDA decided there was sufficient supporting information, and if the FDA undertook negotiations with the brand-name manufacturer, and if adequate label changes were decided on and implemented, then the Manufacturers would have started a Mouse Trap game that eventually led to a better label on generic metoclopramide.     This raises the novel question whether conflict pre-emption should take into account these possible actions by the FDA and the brand-name manufacturer. Here, what federal law permitted the Manufacturers to do could have changed, even absent a change in the law itself, depending on the actions of the FDA and the brand-name manufacturer. Federal law does not dictate the text of each generic drug's label, but rather ties those labels to their brand-name counterparts. Thus, federal law would permit the Manufacturers to comply with the state labeling requirements if, and only if, the FDA and the brand-name manufacturer changed the brand-name label to do so.     Mensing and Demahy assert that when a private party's ability to comply with state law depends on approval and assistance from the FDA, proving pre-emption requires that party to demonstrate that the FDA would not have allowed compliance with state law. Here, they argue, the Manufacturers cannot bear their burden of proving impossibility because they did not even try to start the process that might ultimately have allowed them to use a safer label. Brief for Respondents 47. This is a fair argument, but we reject it.     The question for "impossibility" is whether the private party could independently do under federal law what state law requires of it. See Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 573 (finding no pre-emption where the defendant could "unilaterally" do what state law required). Accepting Mensing and Demahy's argument would render conflict pre-emption largely meaningless because it would make most conflicts between state and federal law illusory. We can often imagine that a third party or the Federal Government might do something that makes it lawful for a private party to accomplish under federal law what state law requires of it. In these cases, it is certainly possible that, had the Manufacturers asked the FDA for help, they might have eventually been able to strengthen their warning label. Of course, it is also possible that the Manufacturers could have convinced the FDA to reinterpret its regulations in a manner that would have opened the CBE process to them. Following Mensing and Demahy's argument to its logical conclusion, it is also possible that, by asking, the Manufacturers could have persuaded the FDA to rewrite its generic drug regulations entirely or talked Congress into amending the Hatch-Waxman Amendments.     If these conjectures suffice to prevent federal and state law from conflicting for Supremacy Clause purposes, it is unclear when, outside of express pre-emption, the Supremacy Clause would have any force.6 We do not read the Supremacy Clause to permit an approach to pre-emption that renders conflict pre-emption all but meaningless. The Supremacy Clause, on its face, makes federal law "the supreme Law of the Land" even absent an express statement by Congress. U. S. Const., Art. VI, cl. 2.2     Moreover, the text of the Clause--that federal law shall be supreme, "any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding"--plainly contemplates conflict pre-emption by describing federal law as effectively repealing contrary state law. Ibid.; see Nelson, Preemption, 86 Va. L. Rev. 225, 234 (2000); id., at 252-253 (describing discussion of the Supremacy Clause in state ratification debates as concerning whether federal law could repeal state law, or vice versa). The phrase "any [state law] to the Contrary notwithstanding" is a non ob-stante provision. Id., at 238-240, nn. 43-45. Eighteenth-century legislatures used non obstante provisions to specify the degree to which a new statute was meant to repeal older, potentially conflicting statutes in the same field. Id., at 238-240 (citing dozens of statutes from the 1770's and 1780's with similar provisions). A non obstante provision "in a new statute acknowledged that the statute might contradict prior law and instructed courts not to apply the general presumption against implied repeals." Id., at 241-242; 4 M. Bacon, A New Abridgment of the Law 639 (4th ed. 1778) ("Although two Acts of Parliament are seemingly repugnant, yet if there be no Clause of non Obstante in the latter, they shall if possible have such Construction, that the latter may not be a Repeal of the former by Implication"). The non obstante provision in the Supremacy Clause therefore suggests that federal law should be understood to impliedly repeal conflicting state law.     Further, the provision suggests that courts should not strain to find ways to reconcile federal law with seemingly conflicting state law. Traditionally, courts went to great lengths attempting to harmonize conflicting statutes, in order to avoid implied repeals. Warder v. Arell, 2 Va. 282, 296 (1796) (opinion of Roane, J.) ("[W]e ought to seek for such a construction as will reconcile [the statutes] together"); Ludlow's Heirs v. Johnston, 3 Ohio 553, 564 (1828) ("[I]f by any fair course of reasoning the two [statutes] can be reconciled, both shall stand"); Doolittle v. Bryan, 14 How. 563, 566 (1853) (requiring "the repugnance be quite plain" before finding implied repeal). A non obstante provision thus was a useful way for legislatures to specify that they did not want courts distorting the new law to accommodate the old. Nelson, supra, at 240-242; see also J. Sutherland, Statutes and Statutory Construction §147, p. 199 (1891) ("[W]hen there is inserted in a statute a provision [of non obstante] ... . It is to be supposed that courts will be less inclined against recognizing repugnancy in applying such statutes"); Weston's Case, 73 Eng. Rep. 780, 781 (K. B. 1576) ("[W]hen there are two statutes, one in appearance crossing the other, and no clause of non obstante is contained in the second statute ... the exposition ought to be that both should stand in force"); G. Jacob, A New Law Dictionary (J. Morgan ed., 10th ed. 1782) (definition of "statute," ¶6: "[W]hen there is a seeming variance between two statutes, and no clause of non obstante in the latter, such construction shall be made that both may stand"). The non obstante provision of he Supremacy Clause indicates that a court need look no further than "the ordinary meanin[g]" of federal law, and should not distort federal law to accommodate conflicting state law. Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 588 (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (internal quotation marks omitted).     To consider in our pre-emption analysis the contingencies inherent in these cases--in which the Manufacturers' ability to comply with state law depended on uncertain federal agency and third-party decisions--would be inconsistent with the non obstante provision of the Supremacy Clause. The Manufacturers would be required continually to prove the counterfactual conduct of the FDA and brand-name manufacturer in order to establish the supremacy of federal law. We do not think the Supremacy Clause contemplates that sort of contingent supremacy. The non obstante provision suggests that pre-emption analysis should not involve speculation about ways in which federal agency and third-party actions could potentially reconcile federal duties with conflicting state duties. When the "ordinary meaning" of federal law blocks a private party from independently accomplishing what state law requires, that party has established pre-emption.3     To be sure, whether a private party can act sufficiently independently under federal law to do what state law requires may sometimes be difficult to determine. But this is not such a case. Before the Manufacturers could satisfy state law, the FDA--a federal agency--had to undertake special effort permitting them to do so. To decide these cases, it is enough to hold that when a party cannot satisfy its state duties without the Federal Government's special permission and assistance, which is dependent on the exercise of judgment by a federal agency, that party cannot independently satisfy those state duties for pre-emption purposes.     Here, state law imposed a duty on the Manufacturers to take a certain action, and federal law barred them from taking that action. The only action the Manufacturers could independently take--asking for the FDA's help--is not a matter of state-law concern. Mensing and Demahy's tort claims are pre-empted.C     Wyeth is not to the contrary. In that case, as here, the plaintiff contended that a drug manufacturer had breached a state tort-law duty to provide an adequate warning label. 555 U. S., at 559-560. The Court held that the lawsuit was not pre-empted because it was possible for Wyeth, a brand-name drug manufacturer, to comply with both state and federal law. Id., at 572-573.7 Specifically, the CBE regulation, 21 CFR §314.70(c)(6)(iii), permitted a brand-name drug manufacturer like Wyeth "to unilaterally strengthen its warning" without prior FDA approval. 555 U. S., at 573; cf. supra, at 7-8. Thus, the federal regulations applicable to Wyeth allowed the company, of its own volition, to strengthen its label in compliance with its state tort duty.8     We recognize that from the perspective of Mensing and Demahy, finding pre-emption here but not in Wyeth makes little sense. Had Mensing and Demahy taken Reglan, the brand-name drug prescribed by their doctors, Wyeth would control and their lawsuits would not be pre-empted. But because pharmacists, acting in full accord with state law, substituted generic metoclopramide instead, federal law pre-empts these lawsuits. See, e.g., Minn. Stat. §151.21 (2010) (describing when pharmacists may substitute ge-neric drugs); La. Rev. Stat. Ann. §37:1241(A)(17) (West 2007) (same). We acknowledge the unfortunate hand that federal drug regulation has dealt Mensing, Demahy, and others similarly situated.9     But "it is not this Court's task to decide whether the statutory scheme established by Congress is unusual or even bizarre." Cuomo v. Clearing House Assn., L. L. C., 557 U. S. ___, ___ (2009) (Thomas, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) (slip op., at 21) (internal quotation marks and brackets omitted). It is beyond dispute that the federal statutes and regulations that apply to brand-name drug manufacturers are meaningfully different than those that apply to generic drug manufacturers. Indeed, it is the special, and different, regulation of generic drugs that allowed the generic drug market to expand, bringing more drugs more quickly and cheaply to the public. But different federal statutes and regulations may, as here, lead to different pre-emption results. We will not distort the Supremacy Clause in order to create similar pre-emption across a dissimilar statutory scheme. As always, Congress and the FDA retain the authority to change the law and regulations if they so desire.*??*??*     The judgments of the Fifth and Eighth Circuits are reversed, and the cases are remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.PLIVA, INC., et al., PETITIONERS09-993     v.GLADYS MENSINGACTAVIS ELIZABETH, LLC, PETITIONER09-1039     v.GLADYS MENSINGACTAVIS, INC., PETITIONER09-1501     v.JULIE DEMAHYon writs of certiorari to the united states courts of appeals for the eighth and fifth circuits[June 23, 2011]     Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Ginsburg, Justice Breyer, and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.     The Court today invokes the doctrine of impossibility pre-emption to hold that federal law immunizes generic-drug manufacturers from all state-law failure-to-warn claims because they cannot unilaterally change their la-bels. I cannot agree. We have traditionally held defendants claiming impossibility to a demanding standard: Until today, the mere possibility of impossibility had not been enough to establish pre-emption.     The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) permits--and, the Court assumes, requires--generic-drug manufacturers to propose a label change to the FDA when they believe that their labels are inadequate. If it agrees that the labels are inadequate, the FDA can initiate a change to the brand-name label, triggering a corresponding change to the generic labels. Once that occurs, a generic manufacturer is in full compliance with both federal law and a state-law duty to warn. Although generic manufacturers may be able to show impossibility in some cases, petitioners, generic manufacturers of metoclopramide (Manufacturers), have shown only that they might have been unable to comply with both federal law and their state-law duties to warn respondents Gladys Mensing and Julie Demahy. This, I would hold, is insufficient to sustain their burden.     The Court strains to reach the opposite conclusion. It invents new principles of pre-emption law out of thin air to justify its dilution of the impossibility standard. It effectively rewrites our decision in Wyeth v. Levine, 555 U. S. 555 (2009), which holds that federal law does not pre-empt failure-to-warn claims against brand-name drug manufacturers. And a plurality of the Court tosses aside our repeated admonition that courts should hesitate to conclude that Congress intended to pre-empt state laws governing health and safety. As a result of today's decision, whether a consumer harmed by inadequate warnings can obtain relief turns solely on the happenstance of whether her pharmacist filled her prescription with a brand-name or generic drug. The Court gets one thing right: This outcome "makes little sense." Ante, at 18.IA      Today's decision affects 75 percent of all prescription drugs dispensed in this country. The dominant position of generic drugs in the prescription drug market is the result of a series of legislative measures, both federal and state.     In 1984, Congress enacted the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act, 98 Stat. 1585--commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA)--to "make available more low cost generic drugs by establishing a generic drug approval procedure," H. R. Rep. No. 98-857, pt. 1, p. 14 (1984). As the majority explains, to accomplish this goal the amendments establish an abbreviated application process for generic drugs. Ante, at 5-6; see also 21 U. S. C. §355(j)(2)(A). The abbreviated approval process implements the amendments' core principle that generic and brand-name drugs must be the "same" in nearly all respects: To obtain FDA approval, a generic manufacturer must ordinarily show, among other things, that its product has the same active ingredients as an approved brand-name drug; that "the route of adminis-tration, the dosage form, and the strength of the new drug are the same" as the brand-name drug; and that its product is "bioequivalent" to the brand-name drug. §§355(j)(2)(A)(ii), (iii), (iv). By eliminating the need for generic manufacturers to prove their drugs' safety and efficacy independently, the Hatch-Waxman Amendments allow generic manufacturers to bring drugs to market much less expensively.     The States have also acted to expand consumption of low-cost generic drugs. In the years leading up to passage of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, States enacted legislation authorizing pharmacists to substitute generic drugs when filling prescriptions for brand-name drugs. Christensen, Kirking, Ascione, Welage, & Gaither, Drug Product Selection: Legal Issues, 41 J. Am. Pharmaceutical Assn. 868, 869 (2001). Currently, all States have some form of generic substitution law. See ibid. Some States require generic substitution in certain circumstances. Dept. of Health and Human Servs., ASPE Issue Brief: Expanding the Use of Generic Drugs 7 (2010) (hereinafter Expanding the Use of Generic Drugs);1 see, e.g., N. Y. Educ. Law Ann. §6816-a (West 2010). Others permit, but do not require, substitution. Expanding the Use of Generic Drugs 7; see, e.g., Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code Ann. §4073 (West Supp. 2011). Some States require patient consent to substitution, and all States "allow the physician to specify that the brand name must be prescribed, although with different levels of effort from the physician." Expanding the Use of Generic Drugs 7.2     These legislative efforts to expand production and consumption of generic drugs have proved wildly successful. It is estimated that in 1984, when the Hatch-Waxman Amendments were enacted, generic drugs constituted 19 percent of drugs sold in this country. Congressional Bud-get Office, How Increased Competition from Generic Drugs Has Affected Prices and Returns in the Pharmaceutical Industry 27 (1998).3 Today, they dominate the market. See Expanding the Use of Generic Drugs 2 (generic drugs constituted 75 percent of all dispensed prescription drugs in 2009). Ninety percent of drugs for which a generic version is available are now filled with generics. Id., at 3-4. In many cases, once generic versions of a drug enter the market, the brand-name manufacturer stops selling the brand-name drug altogether. See Brief for Marc T. Law et al. as Amici Curiae 18 (citing studies showing that anywhere from one-third to one-half of generic drugs no longer have a marketed brand-name equivalent). Reflecting the success of their products, many generic manufacturers, including the Manufacturers and their amici, are huge, multinational companies. In total, generic drug manufacturers sold an estimated $66 billion of drugs in this country in 2009. See id., at 15.B     As noted, to obtain FDA approval a generic manufacturer must generally show that its drug is the same as an approved brand-name drug. It need not conduct clinical trials to prove the safety and efficacy of the drug. This does not mean, however, that a generic manufacturer has no duty under federal law to ensure the safety of its products. The FDA has limited resources to conduct postapproval monitoring of drug safety. See Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 578. Manufacturers, we have recognized, "have superior access to information about their drugs, especially in the postmarketing phase as new risks emerge." Id., at 578-579. Federal law thus obliges drug manufacturers--both brand-name and generic--to monitor the safety of their products.     Under federal law, generic manufacturers must "develop written procedures for the surveillance, receipt, evaluation, and reporting of postmarketing adverse drug experiences" to the FDA.4 21 CFR §314.80(b);5 see also §314.98 (making §314.80 applicable to generic manufacturers); Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 6, and n. 2 (hereinafter U. S. Brief). They must review all reports of adverse drug experiences received from "any source." §314.80(b). If a manufacturer receives a report of a serious and unexpected adverse drug experience, it must re-port the event to the FDA within 15 days and must "promptly investigate." §§314.80(c)(1)(i)-(ii); see also Tr. of Oral Arg. 8. Most other adverse drug experiences must be reported on a quarterly or yearly basis.6 §314.80(c)(2). Generic manufacturers must also submit to the FDA an annual report summarizing "significant new information from the previous year that might affect the safety, ef-fectiveness, or labeling of the drug product," including a "description of actions the [manufacturer] has taken or intends to take as a result of this new information." §314.81(b)(2)(i); see also §314.98(c).     Generic manufacturers, the majority assumes, also bear responsibility under federal law for monitoring the adequacy of their warnings. I agree with the majority's conclusion that generic manufacturers are not permitted unilaterally to change their labels through the "changes-being-effected" (CBE) process or to issue additional warnings through "Dear Doctor" letters. See ante, at 6-9. According to the FDA, however, that generic manufacturers cannot disseminate additional warnings on their own does not mean that federal law permits them to remain idle when they conclude that their labeling is inadequate. FDA regulations require that labeling "be revised to include a warning as soon as there is reasonable evidence of an association of a serious hazard with a drug." 21 CFR §201.57(e) (2006), currently codified at 21 CFR §201.80(e) (2010); see also Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 570-571. The FDA construes this regulation to oblige generic manufacturers "to seek to revise their labeling and provide FDA with supporting information about risks" when they believe that additional warnings are necessary.7 U. S. Brief 20.     The Manufacturers disagree. They read the FDA regulation to require them only to ensure that their labels match the brand-name labels. See Brief for Petitioner PLIVA et al. 38-41. I need not decide whether the regulation in fact obliges generic manufacturers to approach the FDA to propose a label change. The majority assumes that it does. And even if generic manufacturers do not have a duty to propose label changes, two points remain undisputed. First, they do have a duty under federal law to monitor the safety of their products. And, second, they may approach the FDA to propose a label change when they believe a change is required.II     This brings me to the Manufacturers' pre-emption defense. State law obliged the Manufacturers to warn of dangers to users. See Hines v. Remington Arms Co., 94-0455, p. 10 (La. 12/8/94), 648 So. 2d 331, 337; Frey v. Montgomery Ward & Co., 258 N. W. 2d 782, 788 (Minn. 1977). The Manufacturers contend, and the majority agrees, that federal law pre-empts respondents' failure-to-warn claims because, under federal law, the Manufac-turers could not have provided additional warnings to respondents without the exercise of judgment by the FDA. I cannot endorse this novel conception of impossibility pre-emption.A     Two principles guide all pre-emption analysis. First, " 'the purpose of Congress is the ultimate touchstone in every pre-emption case.' " Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 565 (quoting Medtronic, Inc. v. Lohr, 518 U. S. 470, 485 (1996)). Second, " '[i]n all pre-emption cases, and particularly in those in which Congress has legislated . . . in a field which the States have traditionally occupied, . . . we start with the assumption that the historic police powers of the States were not to be superseded by the Federal Act unless that was the clear and manifest purpose of Congress.' " Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 565 (quoting Lohr, 518 U. S., at 485; some internal quotation marks omitted; alterations in original).     These principles find particular resonance in these cases. The States have traditionally regulated health and safety matters. See id., at 485. Notwithstanding Congress' "certain awareness of the prevalence of state tort litigation" against drug manufacturers, Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 575, Congress has not expressly pre-empted state-law tort actions against prescription drug manufacturers, whether brand-name or generic. To the contrary, when Congress amended the FDCA in 1962 to "enlarg[e] the FDA's powers to 'protect the public health' and 'assure the safety, effectiveness, and reliability of drugs,' [it] took care to preserve state law." Id., at 567 (quoting 76 Stat. 780); see Pub. L. 87-781, §202, 76 Stat. 793 ("Nothing in the amendments made by this Act to the [FDCA] shall be construed as invalidating any provision of State law which would be valid in the absence of such amendments unless there is a direct and positive conflict between such amendments and such provision of State law"). Notably, although Congress enacted an express pre-emption provision for medical devices in 1976, see Pub. L. 94-295, §521, 90 Stat. 574, 21 U. S. C. §360k(a), it included no such provision in the Hatch-Waxman Amendments eight years later. Cf. Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 567, 574-575. Congress' "silence on the issue . . . is powerful evidence that [it] did not intend FDA oversight to be the exclusive means of ensuring drug safety and effectiveness." Id., at 575.B     Federal law impliedly pre-empts state law when state and federal law "conflict"--i.e., when "it is impossible for a private party to comply with both state and federal law" or when state law "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress." Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council, 530 U. S. 363, 372-373 (2000) (internal quotation marks omitted). The Manufacturers rely solely on the former ground of pre-emption.     Impossibility pre-emption, we have emphasized, "is a de-manding defense." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 573. Because pre-emption is an affirmative defense, a defendant seeking to set aside state law bears the burden to prove impossibility. See ibid.; Silkwood v. Kerr-McGee Corp., 464 U. S. 238, 255 (1984). To prevail on this defense, a defendant must demonstrate that "compliance with both federal and state [law] is a physical impossibility." Florida Lime & Avocado Growers, Inc. v. Paul, 373 U. S. 132, 142-143 (1963); see also Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 573. In other words, there must be an "inevitable collision" between federal and state law. Florida Lime, 373 U. S., at 143. "The existence of a hypothetical or potential conflict is insufficient to warrant" pre-emption of state law. Rice v. Norman Williams Co., 458 U. S. 654, 659 (1982); see also Gade v. National Solid Wastes Management Assn., 505 U. S. 88, 110 (1992) (Kennedy, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment). In other words, the mere possibility of impossibility is not enough.     The Manufacturers contend that it was impossible for them to provide additional warnings to respondents Men-sing and Demahy because federal law prohibited them from changing their labels unilaterally.8 They concede, however, that they could have asked the FDA to initiate a label change. If the FDA agreed that a label change was required, it could have asked, and indeed pressured, the brand-name manufacturer to change its label, triggering a corresponding change to the Manufacturers' generic la-bels.9 Thus, had the Manufacturers invoked the available mechanism for initiating label changes, they may well have been able to change their labels in sufficient time to warn respondents. Having failed to do so, the Manufacturers cannot sustain their burden (at least not without further factual development) to demonstrate that it was impossible for them to comply with both federal and state law. At most, they have demonstrated only "a hypothetical or potential conflict." Rice, 458 U. S., at 659.     Like the majority, the Manufacturers focus on the fact that they cannot change their labels unilaterally--which distinguishes them from the brand-name-manufacturer defendant in Wyeth. They correctly point out that in Wyeth we concluded that the FDA's CBE regulation authorized the defendant to strengthen its warnings before receiving agency approval of its supplemental application describing the label change. 555 U. S., at 568-571; see also 21 CFR §314.70(c)(6). But the defendant's label change was contingent on FDA acceptance, as the FDA retained "authority to reject labeling changes made pursuant to the CBE regulation." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 571. Thus, in the long run, a brand-name manufacturer's compliance with a state-law duty to warn required action by two actors: The brand-name manufacturer had to change the label and the FDA, upon reviewing the supplemental application, had to agree with the change.10 The need for FDA approval of the label change did not make compliance with federal and state law impossible in every case. Instead, because the defendant bore the burden to show impossibility, we required it to produce "clear evidence that the FDA would not have approved a change to [the] label." Ibid.     I would apply the same approach in these cases. State law, respondents allege, required the Manufacturers to provide a strengthened warning about the dangers of long-term metoclopramide use.11 Just like the brand-name manufacturer in Wyeth, the Manufacturers had available to them a mechanism for attempting to comply with their state-law duty to warn. Federal law thus "accommodated" the Manufacturers' state-law duties. See ante, at 18, n. 8. It was not necessarily impossible for the Manufacturers to comply with both federal and state law because, had they approached the FDA, the FDA may well have agreed that a label change was necessary. Accordingly, as in Wyeth, I would require the Manufacturers to show that the FDA would not have approved a proposed label change. They have not made such a showing: They do "not argue that [they] attempted to give the kind of warning required by [state law] but [were] prohibited from doing so by the FDA." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 572.     This is not to say that generic manufacturers could never show impossibility. If a generic-manufacturer defendant proposed a label change to the FDA but the FDA rejected the proposal, it would be impossible for that defendant to comply with a state-law duty to warn. Likewise, impossibility would be established if the FDA had not yet responded to a generic manufacturer's request for a label change at the time a plaintiff's injuries arose. A generic manufacturer might also show that the FDA had itself considered whether to request enhanced warnings in light of the evidence on which a plaintiff's claim rests but had decided to leave the warnings as is. (The Manufacturers make just such an argument in these cases. See, e.g., Brief for Petitioner Actavis et al. 11.) But these are questions of fact to be established through discovery. Because the burden of proving impossibility falls on the defendant, I would hold that federal law does not render it impossible for generic manufacturers to comply with a state-law duty to warn as a categorical matter.     This conclusion flows naturally from the overarching prin-ciples governing our pre-emption doctrine. See supra, at 8. Our "respect for the States as 'independent sovereigns in our federal system' leads us to assume that 'Congress does not cavalierly pre-empt state-law causes of action.' " Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 565-566, n. 3 (quoting Lohr, 518 U. S., at 485). It is for this reason that we hold defendants asserting impossibility to a "demanding" standard. Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 573. This presumption against pre-emption has particular force when the Federal Government has afforded defendants a mechanism for complying with state law, even when that mechanism requires federal agency action. (The presumption has even greater force when federal law requires defendants to invoke that mechanism, as the majority assumes in these cases.) In such circumstances, I would hold, defendants will usually be unable to sustain their burden of showing impossibility if they have not even attempted to employ that mechanism. Any other approach threatens to infringe the States' authority over traditional matters of state interest--such as the failure-to-warn claims here--when Congress expressed no intent to pre-empt state law.C     The majority concedes that the Manufacturers might have been able to accomplish under federal law what state law requires. Ante, at 12-13. To reach the conclusion that the Manufacturers have nonetheless satisfied their bur-den to show impossibility, the majority invents a new pre-emption rule: "The question for 'impossibility' is whether the private party could independently do under federal law what state law requires of it." Ante, at 13 (emphasis added). Because the Manufacturers could not have changed their labels without the exercise of judgment by the FDA, the majority holds, compliance with both state and federal law was impossible in these cases.12     The majority's new test has no basis in our precedents. The majority cites only Wyeth in support of its test. As discussed above, however, Wyeth does not stand for the proposition that it is impossible to comply with both federal and state law whenever federal agency approval is required. To the contrary, label changes by brand-name manufacturers such as Wyeth are subject to FDA review and acceptance. See supra, at 11-12. And, even if Wyeth could be characterized as turning on the fact that the brand-name manufacturer could change its label unilaterally, the possibility of unilateral action was, at most, a sufficient condition for rejecting the impossibility defense in that case. Wyeth did not hold that unilateral action is a necessary condition in every case.     With so little support in our case law, the majority un-derstandably turns to other rationales. None of the rationales that it offers, however, makes any sense. First, it offers a reductio ad absurdum: If the possibility of FDA approval of a label change is sufficient to avoid conflict in these cases, it warns, as a "logical conclusion" so too would be the possibility that the FDA might rewrite its regulations or that Congress might amend the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. Ante, at 14. The logic of this conclusion escapes me. Conflict analysis necessarily turns on existing law. It thus would be ridiculous to conclude that federal and state law do not conflict on the ground that the defendant could have asked a federal agency or Congress to change the law. Here, by contrast, the Manufacturers' compliance with their state-law duty to warn did not re-quire them to ask for a change in federal law, as the majority itself recognizes. See ante, at 13 ("[F]ederal law would permit the Manufacturers to comply with the state labeling requirements if, and only if, the FDA and the brand-name manufacturer changed the brand-name label to do so"). The FDA already afforded them a mechanism for attempting to comply with their state-law duties. Indeed, the majority assumes that FDA regulations required the Manufacturers to request a label change when they had "reasonable evidence of an association of a serious hazard with a drug." 21 CFR §201.57(e).     Second, the majority suggests that any other approach would render conflict pre-emption "illusory" and "meaning-less." Ante, at 14. It expresses concern that, without a robust view of what constitutes conflict, the Supremacy Clause would not have "any force" except in cases of express pre-emption. Ibid. To the extent the majority's purported concern is driven by its reductio ad absurdum, see ante, at 14, n. 6, that concern is itself illusory, for the reasons just stated. To the extent the majority is concerned that our traditionally narrow view of what constitutes impossibility somehow renders conflict pre-emption as a whole meaningless, that concern simply makes no sense: We have repeatedly recognized that conflict pre-emption may be found, even absent impossibility, where state law "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress." Crosby, 530 U. S., at 373 (internal quotation marks omitted); see, e.g., Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861, 886 (2000); Barnett Bank of Marion Cty., N. A. v. Nelson, 517 U. S. 25, 31 (1996); Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941). The majority's expansive view of impossibility is thus unnecessary to prevent conflict pre-emption from losing all meaning.13     Third, a plurality of the Court adopts the novel theory that the Framers intended for the Supremacy Clause to operate as a so-called non obstante provision. See ante, at 15-17 (citing Nelson, Preemption, 86 Va. L. Rev. 225 (2000)). According to the plurality, non obstante provisions in statutes "instruc[t] courts not to apply the general presumption against implied repeals." Ante, at 15 (internal quotation marks omitted); see also ante, at 16 (stating that when a statute contains a non obstante provision, " 'courts will be less inclined against recognizing repugnancy in applying such statutes' " (quoting J. Sutherland, Statutes and Statutory Construction §147, p. 199 (1891)). From this understanding of the Supremacy Clause, the plurality extrapolates the principle that "courts should not strain to find ways to reconcile federal law with seemingly conflicting state law." Ante, at 15.     This principle would have been news to the Congress that enacted the Hatch-Waxman Amendments in 1984: Our precedents hold just the opposite. For more than half a century, we have directed courts to presume that congressional action does not supersede "the historic police powers of the States . . . unless that was the clear and manifest purpose of Congress." Rice v. Santa Fe Elevator Corp., 331 U. S. 218, 230 (1947); see also Gade, 505 U. S., at 111-112 (Kennedy, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment). We apply this presumption against pre-emption both where Congress has spoken to the pre-emption question and where it has not. See Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 566, n. 3. In the context of express pre-emption, we read federal statutes whenever possible not to pre-empt state law. See Altria Group, Inc. v. Good, 555 U. S. 70, 77 (2008) ("[W]hen the text of a pre-emption clause is susceptible of more than one plausible reading, courts ordinarily 'accept the reading that disfavors pre-emption' " (quoting Bates v. Dow Agrosciences LLC, 544 U. S. 431, 449 (2005))); see also Cipollone v. Liggett Group, Inc., 505 U. S. 504, 518 (1992). And, when the claim is that federal law impliedly pre-empts state law, we require a "strong" showing of a conflict "to overcome the presumption that state and local regulation . . . can constitutionally coexist with federal regulation." Hillsborough County v. Automated Medical Laboratories, Inc., 471 U. S. 707, 716 (1985).     The plurality's new theory of the Supremacy Clause is a direct assault on these precedents.14 Whereas we have long presumed that federal law does not pre-empt, or repeal, state law, the plurality today reads the Supremacy Clause to operate as a provision instructing courts "not to apply the general presumption against implied repeals." Ante, at 15 (internal quotation marks omitted; emphasis added). And whereas we have long required evidence of a "clear and manifest" purpose to pre-empt, Rice, 331 U. S., at 230, the plurality now instructs courts to "look no further than the ordinary meaning of federal law" before concluding that Congress must have intended to cast aside state law, ante, at 16 (internal quotation marks and alteration omitted).     That the plurality finds it necessary to resort to this novel theory of the Supremacy Clause--a theory advocated by no party or amici in these cases--is telling. Proper application of the longstanding presumption against pre-emption compels the conclusion that federal law does not render compliance with state law impossible merely because it requires an actor to seek federal agency approval. When federal law provides actors with a mech-anism for attempting to comply with their state-law duties, "respect for the States as 'independent sovereigns in our federal system' " should require those actors to attempt to comply with state law before being heard to complain that compliance with both laws was impossible. Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 565-566, n. 3 (quoting Lohr, 518 U. S., at 485).III     Today's decision leads to so many absurd consequences that I cannot fathom that Congress would have intended to pre-empt state law in these cases.     First, the majority's pre-emption analysis strips generic-drug consumers of compensation when they are injured by inadequate warnings. "If Congress had intended to deprive injured parties of [this] long available form of compensation, it surely would have expressed that intent more clearly." Bates, 544 U. S., at 449. Given the longstanding existence of product liability actions, including for failure to warn, "[i]t is difficult to believe that Congress would, without comment, remove all means of judicial recourse for those injured by illegal conduct." Silkwood, 464 U. S., at 251; see also Bruesewitz v. Wyeth LLC, 562 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 16) (noting our previously expressed "doubt that Congress would quietly preempt product-liability claims without providing a federal substitute"). In concluding that Congress silently immunized generic manufacturers from all failure-to-warn claims, the majority disregards our previous hesitance to infer congressional intent to effect such a sweeping change in traditional state-law remedies.     As the majority itself admits, a drug consumer's right to compensation for inadequate warnings now turns on the happenstance of whether her pharmacist filled her pre-scription with a brand-name drug or a generic. If a consumer takes a brand-name drug, she can sue the manufacturer for inadequate warnings under our opinion in Wyeth. If, however, she takes a generic drug, as occurs 75 percent of the time, she now has no right to sue. The majority offers no reason to think--apart from its new articulation of the impossibility standard--that Congress would have intended such an arbitrary distinction. In some States, pharmacists must dispense generic drugs absent instruction to the contrary from a consumer's physician. Even when consumers can request brand-name drugs, the price of the brand-name drug or the consumers' insurance plans may make it impossible to do so. As a result, in many cases, consumers will have no ability to preserve their state-law right to recover for injuries caused by inadequate warnings.     Second, the majority's decision creates a gap in the parallel federal-state regulatory scheme in a way that could have troubling consequences for drug safety. As we explained in Wyeth, "[s]tate tort suits uncover unknown drug hazards and provide incentives for drug manufacturers to disclose safety risks promptly." 555 U. S., at 579. Thus, we recognized, "state law offers an additional, and important, layer of consumer protection that complements FDA regulation." Ibid. Today's decision eliminates the traditional state-law incentives for generic manufacturers to monitor and disclose safety risks. When a generic drug has a brand-name equivalent on the market, the brand-name manufacturer will remain incentivized to uncover safety risks. But brand-name manufacturers often leave the market once generic versions are available, see supra, at 4-5, meaning that there will be no manufacturer subject to failure-to-warn liability. As to those generic drugs, there will be no "additional . . . layer of consumer protection." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 579.     Finally, today's decision undoes the core principle of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments that generic and brand-name drugs are the "same" in nearly all respects.15 See Brief for Rep. Henry A. Waxman as Amicus Curiae 9. The majority pins the expansion of the generic drug market on "the special, and different, regulation of generic drugs," which allows generic manufacturers to produce their drugs more cheaply. Ante, at 19. This tells only half the story. The expansion of the market for generic drugs has also flowed from the increased acceptance of, and trust in, generic drugs by consumers, physicians, and state legislators alike.     Today's decision introduces a critical distinction between brand-name and generic drugs. Consumers of brand-name drugs can sue manufacturers for inadequate warnings; consumers of generic drugs cannot. These divergent liability rules threaten to reduce consumer demand for generics, at least among consumers who can afford brand-name drugs. They may pose "an ethical dilemma" for prescribing physicians. Brief for American Medical Association et al. as Amici Curiae 29. And they may well cause the States to rethink their longstanding efforts to promote generic use through generic substitution laws. See Brief for National Conference of State Legislators as Amicus Curiae 15 (state generic substitution laws "have proceeded on the premise that . . . generic drugs are not, from citizens' perspective, materially different from brand ones, except for the lower price"). These consequences are directly at odds with the Hatch-Waxman Amendments' goal of increasing consumption of generic drugs.     Nothing in the Court's opinion convinces me that, in enacting the requirement that generic labels match their corresponding brand-name labels, Congress intended these absurd results. The Court certainly has not shown that such was the "clear and manifest purpose of Congress." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 565 (internal quotation marks omitted; emphasis added). To the contrary, because federal law affords generic manufacturers a mechanism for attempting to comply with their state-law duties to warn, I would hold that federal law does not categorically pre-empt state-law failure-to-warn claims against generic manufacturers. Especially in light of the presumption against pre-emption, the burden should fall on generic manufacturers to show that compliance was impossible on the particular facts of their case. By holding that the "possibility of possibility" is insufficient to "defea[t]" pre-emption in these cases, ante, at 18, n. 8, the Court contorts our pre-emption doctrine and exempts defendants from their burden to establish impossibility. With respect, I dissent.FOOTNOTESThe Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (BAPCPA) amended the Bankruptcy Code to define a class of bankruptcy professionals termed "debt relief agenc[ies]." 11 U. S. C. §101(12A). That class includes, with limited exceptions, "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person ... for ... payment ... , or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." Ibid. The BAPCPA prohibits such professionals from "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt in contemplation of [filing for bankruptcy] ... ." §526(a)(4). It also requires them to disclose in their advertisements for certain services that the services are with respect to or may involve bankruptcy relief, §§528(a)(3), (b)(2)(A), and to identify themselves as debt relief agencies, §§528(a)(4), (b)(2)(B).          The plaintiffs in this litigation--a law firm and others (collectively Milavetz)--filed a preenforcement suit seeking declaratory relief, arguing that Milavetz is not bound by the BAPCPA's debt-relief-agency provisions and therefore can freely advise clients to incur additional debt and need not make the requisite disclosures in its advertisements. The District Court found that "debt relief agency" does not include attorneys and that §§526 and 528 are unconstitutional as applied to that class of professionals. The Eighth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part, rejecting the District Court's conclusion that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]"; upholding application of §528's disclosure requirements to attorneys; and finding §526(a)(4) unconstitutional because it broadly prohibits debt relief agencies from advising assisted persons to incur any additional debt in contemplation of bankruptcy even when the advice constitutes prudent prebankruptcy planning.Held:     1. Attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are debt relief agencies under the BAPCPA. By definition, "bankruptcy assistance" includes several services commonly performed by attorneys, e.g., providing "advice, counsel, [or] document preparation," §101(4A). Moreover, in enumerating specific exceptions to the debt-relief-agency definition, Congress indicated no intent to exclude attorneys. See §§101(12A)(A)-(E). Milavetz relies on the fact that §101(12A) does not expressly include attorneys in advocating a narrower understanding. On that reading, only a bankruptcy petition preparer would qualify--an implausibility given that a "debt relief agency" is "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance ... or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer," ibid. Milavetz's other arguments for excluding attorneys are also unpersuasive. Pp. 5-9.     2. Section 526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising a debtor to incur more debt because the debtor is filing for bankruptcy, rather than for a valid purpose. The statute's language, together with its purpose, makes a narrow reading of §526(a)(4) the natural one. Conrad, Rubin & Lesser v. Pender, 289 U. S. 472, supports this conclusion. The Court in that case read now-repealed §96(d), which authorized reexamination of a debtor's attorney's fees payment "in contemplation of the filing of a petition," to require that the portended bankruptcy have "induce[d]" the transfer at issue, id., at 477, understanding inducement to engender suspicion of abuse. The Court identified the "controlling question" as "whether the thought of bankruptcy was the impelling cause of the transaction," ibid. Given the substantial similarities between §§96(d) and 526(a)(4), the controlling question under the latter is likewise whether the impelling reason for "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt" was the prospect of filing for bankruptcy. In practice, advice impelled by the prospect of filing will generally consist of advice to "load up" on debt with the expectation of obtaining its discharge. The statutory context supports the conclusion that §526(a)(4)'s prohibition primarily targets this type of conduct. The Court rejects Milavetz's arguments for a more expansive view of §526(a)(4) and its claim that the provision, narrowly construed, is impermissibly vague. Pp. 9-18.     3. Section 528's disclosure requirements are valid as applied to Milavetz. Consistent with Milavetz's characterization, the Court presumes that this is an as-applied challenge. Because §528 is directed at misleading commercial speech and imposes only a disclosure requirement rather than an affirmative limitation on speech, the less exacting scrutiny set out in Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626, governs. There, the Court found that, while unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements offend the First Amendment, "an advertiser's rights are adequately protected as long as disclosure requirements are reasonably related to the State's interest in preventing deception of consumers." Id., at 651. Section 528's requirements share the essential features of the rule challenged in Zauderer. The disclosures are intended to combat the problem of inherently misleading commercial advertisements, and they entail only an accurate statement of the advertiser's legal status and the character of the assistance provided. Moreover, they do not prevent debt relief agencies from conveying any additional information through their advertisements. In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191, distinguished. Because §528's requirements are "reasonably related" to the Government's interest in preventing consumer deception, the Court upholds those provisions as applied to Milavetz. Pp. 18-23.541 F. 3d 785, affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.     Sotomayor, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Stevens, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, and Alito, JJ., joined, in which Scalia, J., joined except for n. 3, and in which Thomas, J., joined except for Part III-C. Scalia, J., and Thomas, J., filed opinions concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.     Congress enacted the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (BAPCPA or Act) to correct perceived abuses of the bankruptcy system. Among the reform measures the Act implemented are a number of provisions that regulate the conduct of "debt relief agenc[ies]"--i.e., professionals who provide bankruptcy assistance to consumer debtors. See 11 U. S. C. §§101(3), (12A). These consolidated cases present the threshold question whether attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services. Because we agree with the Court of Appeals that they are, we must also consider whether the Act's provisions governing debt relief agencies' advice to clients, §526(a)(4), and requiring them to make certain disclosures in their advertisements, §§528(a) and (b)(2), violate the First Amendment rights of attorneys. Concluding that the Court of Appeals construed §526(a)(4) too expansively, we reverse its judgment that the provision is unconstitutionally overbroad. Like the Court of Appeals, we uphold §528's disclosure requirements as applied in these consolidated cases.I     In order to improve bankruptcy law and practice, Congress enacted through the BAPCPA a number of provisions directed at the conduct of bankruptcy professionals. Some of these measures apply to the broad class of bankruptcy professionals termed "debt relief agenc[ies]." That category includes, with limited exceptions, "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person in return for ... payment ... , or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." §101(12A).1 "Bankruptcy assistance" refers to goods or services "provided to an assisted person with the express or implied purpose of providing information, advice, counsel, document preparation, or filing, or attendance at a creditors' meeting or appearing in a case or proceeding on behalf of another or providing legal representation with respect to a case or proceeding" in bankruptcy. §101(4A). An "assisted person" is someone with limited nonexempt property whose debts consist primarily of consumer debts. §101(3). The BAPCPA subjects debt relief agencies to a number of restrictions and requirements, as set forth in §§526, 527, and 528. As relevant here, §526(a) establishes several rules of professional conduct for persons qualifying as debt relief agencies. Among them, §526(a)(4) states that a debt relief agency shall not "advise an assisted person ... to incur more debt in contemplation of such person filing a case under this title or to pay an attorney or bankruptcy petition preparer fee or charge for services performed as part of preparing for or representing a debtor in a case under this title."     Section 528 requires qualifying professionals to include certain disclosures in their advertisements. Subsection (a) provides that debt relief agencies must "clearly and conspicuously disclose in any advertisement of bankruptcy assistance services or of the benefits of bankruptcy directed to the general public ... that the services or benefits are with respect to bankruptcy relief under this title." §528(a)(3). It also requires them to include the following, "or a substantially similar statement": "We are a debt relief agency. We help people file for bankruptcy relief under the Bankruptcy Code." §528(a)(4). Subsection (b) requires essentially the same disclosures in advertisements "indicating that the debt relief agency provides assistance with respect to credit defaults, mortgage foreclosures, eviction proceedings, excessive debt, debt collection pressure, or inability to pay any consumer debt." §528(b)(2). Debt relief agencies advertising such services must disclose "that the assistance may involve bankruptcy relief," §528(b)(2)(A), and must identify themselves as "debt relief agenc[ies]" as required by §528(a)(4), see §528(b)(2)(B).II     The plaintiffs in this litigation--the law firm Milavetz, Gallop & Milavetz, P. A.; the firm's president, Robert J. Milavetz; a bankruptcy attorney at the firm, Barbara Nilva Nevin; and two of the firm's clients (collectively Milavetz)--filed a preenforcement suit in Federal District Court seeking declaratory relief with respect to the Act's debt-relief-agency provisions. Milavetz asked the court to hold that it is not bound by these provisions and thus may freely advise clients to incur additional debt and need not identify itself as a debt relief agency in its advertisements.     Milavetz first argued that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]" as that term is used in the BAPCPA. In the alternative, Milavetz sought a judgment that §§526(a)(4) and 528(a)(4) and (b)(2) are unconstitutional as applied to attorneys. The District Court agreed with Milavetz that the term "debt relief agency" does not include attorneys, App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 08-1119, p. A-15, but only after finding that §§526 and 528--provisions expressly applicable only to debt relief agencies--are unconstitutional as applied to this class of professionals.     The Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part. 541 F. 3d 785 (2008). Relying on the Act's plain language, the court unanimously rejected the District Court's conclusion that attorneys are not "debt relief agenc[ies]" within the meaning of the Act. The Court of Appeals also parted ways with the District Court concerning the constitutionality of §528. Concluding that the disclosures are intended to prevent consumer deception and are "reasonably related" to that interest, the court upheld the application of §528's disclosure requirements to attorneys. Id., at 796-797 (citing Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626, 651 (1985)).     A majority of the Eighth Circuit panel, however, agreed with the District Court that §526(a)(4) is invalid. Determining that §526(a)(4) "broadly prohibits a debt relief agency from advising an assisted person ... to incur any additional debt when the assisted person is contemplating bankruptcy," even when that advice constitutes prudent prebankruptcy planning not intended to abuse the bankruptcy laws, 541 F. 3d, at 793, the majority held that §526(a)(4) could not withstand either strict or intermediate scrutiny. In dissent, Judge Colloton argued that §526(a)(4) should be read narrowly to prevent only advice to abuse the bankruptcy system, noting that this construction would avoid most constitutional difficulties. See id., at 799 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part).     In light of a conflict among the Courts of Appeals,2 we granted certiorari to resolve the question of §526(a)(4)'s scope. 556 U. S. ___ (2009). We also agreed to consider the threshold question whether attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are "debt relief agenc[ies]" within the meaning of §101(12A) and the related question whether §528's disclosure requirements are constitutional.IIIA     We first consider whether the term "debt relief agency" includes attorneys. If it does not, we need not reach the other questions presented, as §§526 and 528 govern only the conduct of debt relief agencies, and Milavetz challenges the validity of those provisions based on their application to attorneys. The Government contends that "debt relief agency" plainly includes attorneys, while Milavetz urges that it does not. We conclude that the Government has the better view.     As already noted, a debt relief agency is "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person" in return for payment. §101(12A). By definition, "bankruptcy assistance" includes several services commonly performed by attorneys. Indeed, some forms of bankruptcy assistance, including the "provi[sion of] legal representation with respect to a case or proceeding," §101(4A), may be provided only by attorneys. See §110(e)(2) (prohibiting bankruptcy petition preparers from providing legal advice). Moreover, in enumerating specific exceptions to the definition of debt relief agency, Congress gave no indication that it intended to exclude attorneys. See §§101(12A)(A)-(E). Thus, as the Government contends, the statutory text clearly indicates that attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services to assisted persons.3     In advocating a narrower understanding of that term, Milavetz relies heavily on the fact that §101(12A) does not expressly include attorneys. That omission stands in contrast, it argues, to the provision's explicit inclusion of "bankruptcy petition preparer[s]"--a category of professionals that excludes attorneys and their staff, see §110(a)(1). But Milavetz does not contend, nor could it credibly, that only professionals expressly included in the definition are debt relief agencies. On that reading, no professional other than a bankruptcy petition preparer would qualify--an implausible reading given that the statute defines "debt relief agency" as "any person who provides any bankruptcy assistance to an assisted person ... or who is a bankruptcy petition preparer." §101(12A) (emphasis added). The provision's silence regarding attorneys thus avails Milavetz little. Cf. Heintz v. Jenkins, 514 U. S. 291, 294 (1995) (holding that "debt collector" as used in the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, 15 U. S. C. §1692a(6), includes attorneys notwithstanding the definition's lack of an express reference to lawyers or litigation).     Milavetz's other arguments for excluding attorneys similarly fail to persuade us to disregard the statute's plain language. Milavetz contends that 11 U. S. C. §526(d)(2)'s instruction that §§526, 527, and 528 should not "be deemed to limit or curtail" States' authority to "determine and enforce qualifications for the practice of law" counsels against reading "debt relief agency" to include attorneys, as the surest way to protect the States' role in regulating the legal profession is to make the BAPCPA's professional conduct rules inapplicable to lawyers. We find that §526(d)(2) supports the opposite conclusion, as Congress would have had no reason to enact that provision if the debt-relief-agency provisions did not apply to attorneys. Milavetz's broader claim that reading §101(12A) to include attorneys impermissibly trenches on an area of traditional state regulation also lacks merit. Congress and the bankruptcy courts have long overseen aspects of attorney conduct in this area of substantial federal concern. See, e.g., Conrad, Rubin & Lesser v. Pender, 289 U. S. 472, 477-479 (1933) (finding broad authorization in former §96(d) (1934 ed.) (repealed 1978) for courts to examine the reasonableness of a debtor's prepetition attorney's fees).     Milavetz next argues that §101(12A)'s exception for any "officer, director, employee, or agent of a person who provides" bankruptcy assistance is revealing for its failure to include "partners." §101(12A)(A). In light of that omission, it contends, treating attorneys as debt relief agencies will obligate entire law firms to comply with §§526, 527, and 528 based on the conduct of a single partner, while the agents and employees of debt relief agencies not typically organized as partnerships are shielded from those requirements. Given that the partnership structure is not unique to law firms, however, it is unclear why the exclusion would be revealing of Congress' intent only with respect to attorneys. In any event, partnerships are themselves "person[s]" under the BAPCPA, see §101(41), and can qualify as "debt relief agenc[ies]" when they meet the criteria set forth in §101(12A). Moreover, a partnership's employees and agents are exempted from §101(12A) in the same way as the employees and agents of other organizations. To the extent that partners may be subject to the debt-relief-agency provisions by association, that result is consistent with the joint responsibilities that typically flow from the partnership structure, cf. Strang v. Bradner, 114 U. S. 555, 561 (1885). Accordingly, we decline to attribute the significance Milavetz suggests to §101(12A)(A)'s failure to include partners among the exempted actors.4     All else failing, Milavetz urges that the canon of constitutional avoidance requires us to read "debt relief agency" to exclude attorneys in order to forestall serious doubts as to the validity of §§526 and 528. The avoidance canon, however, "is a tool for choosing between competing plausible interpretations of a statutory text." Clark v. Martinez, 543 U. S. 371, 381 (2005). In applying that tool, we will consider only those constructions of a statute that are " 'fairly possible.' " United States v. Security Industrial Bank, 459 U. S. 70, 78 (1982). For the reasons already discussed, the text and statutory context of §101(12A) foreclose a reading of "debt relief agency" that excludes attorneys. Accordingly, we hold that attorneys who provide bankruptcy assistance to assisted persons are debt relief agencies within the meaning of the BAPCPA.B     Having concluded that attorneys are debt relief agencies when they provide qualifying services, we next address the scope and validity of §526(a)(4). Characterizing the statute as a broad, content-based restriction on attorney-client communications that is not adequately tailored to constrain only speech the Government has a substantial interest in restricting, the Eighth Circuit found the rule substantially overbroad. 541 F. 3d, at 793-794, and n. 10. For the reasons that follow, we reject that conclusion.     Section 526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency from "advis[ing] an assisted person" either "to incur more debt in contemplation of" filing for bankruptcy "or to pay an attorney or bankruptcy petition preparer fee or charge for services" performed in preparation for filing. Only the first of these prohibitions is at issue. In debating the correctness of the Court of Appeals' decision, the parties first dispute the provision's scope. The Court of Appeals concluded that "§526(a)(4) broadly prohibits a debt relief agency from advising an assisted person ... to incur any additional debt when the assisted person is contemplating bankruptcy." Id., at 793. Under that reading, an attorney is prohibited from providing all manner of "beneficial advice--even if the advice could help the assisted person avoid filing for bankruptcy altogether." Ibid.     Agreeing with the Court of Appeals, Milavetz contends that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency from advising a client to incur any new debt while considering whether to file for bankruptcy. Construing the provision more broadly still, Milavetz contends that §526(a)(4) forbids not only affirmative advice but also any discussion of the advantages, disadvantages, or legality of incurring more debt. Like the panel majority's, Milavetz's reading rests primarily on its view that the ordinary meaning of the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy encompasses any advice given to a debtor with the awareness that he might soon file for bankruptcy, even if the advice seeks to obviate the need to file. Milavetz also maintains that if §526(a)(4) were construed more narrowly, as urged by the Government and the dissent below, it would be so vague as to inevitably chill some protected speech.     The Government continues to advocate a narrower construction of the statute, urging that Milavetz's reading is untenable and that its vagueness concerns are misplaced. The Government contends that §526(a)(4)'s restriction on advice to incur more debt "in contemplation of" bankruptcy is most naturally read to forbid only advice to undertake actions to abuse the bankruptcy system. Focusing first on the provision's text, the Government points to sources indicating that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy has long been, and continues to be, associated with abusive conduct. For instance, Black's Law Dictionary 336 (8th ed. 2004) (hereinafter Black's) defines "contemplation of bankruptcy" as "[t]he thought of declaring bankruptcy because of the inability to continue current financial operations, often coupled with action designed to thwart the distribution of assets in a bankruptcy proceeding." Use of the phrase by Members of Congress illustrates that traditional coupling. See, e.g., S. Rep. No. 98-65, p. 9 (1983) (discussing the practice of " 'loading up' [on debt] in contemplation of bankruptcy"); Report of the Commission on the Bankruptcy Laws of the United States, H. R. Doc. No. 93-137, pt. I, p. 11 (1973) ("[T]he most serious abuse of consumer bankruptcy is the number of instances in which individuals have purchased a sizable quantity of goods and services on credit on the eve of bankruptcy in contemplation of obtaining a discharge"). The Government also points to early American and English judicial decisions to corroborate its contention that "in contemplation of" bankruptcy signifies abusive conduct. See, e.g., In re Pearce, 19 F. Cas. 50, 53 (No. 10,873) (D. Vt. 1843); Morgan v. Brundrett, 5 B. Ad. 288, 296-297, 110 Eng. Rep. 798, 801 (K. B. 1833) (Parke, J.).     To bolster its textual claim, the Government relies on §526(a)(4)'s immediate context. According to the Government, the other three subsections of §526(a) are designed to protect debtors from abusive practices by debt relief agencies: §526(a)(1) requires debt relief agencies to perform all promised services; §526(a)(2) prohibits them from making or advising debtors to make false or misleading statements in bankruptcy; and §526(a)(3) prohibits them from misleading debtors regarding the costs or benefits of bankruptcy. When §526(a)(4) is read in context of these debtor-protective provisions, the Government argues, construing it to prevent debt relief agencies from giving advice that is beneficial to both debtors and their creditors seems particularly nonsensical.     Finally, the Government contends that the BAPCPA's remedies for violations of §526(a)(4) similarly corroborate its narrow reading. Section 526(c) provides remedies for a debt relief agency's violation of §526, §527, or §528. Among the actions authorized, a debtor may sue the attorney for remittal of fees, actual damages, and reasonable attorney's fees and costs; a state attorney general may sue for a resident's actual damages; and a court finding intentional abuse may impose an appropriate civil penalty. §526(c). The Government also relies on the Fifth Circuit's decision in Hersh v. United States ex rel. Mukasey, 553 F. 3d 743 (2008), and Judge Colloton's dissent below for the observation that "Congress's emphasis on actual damages for violations of section 526(a)(4) strongly suggests that Congress viewed that section as aimed at advice to debtors which if followed would have a significant risk of harming the debtor." Id., at 760; see 541 F. 3d, at 800 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part). By contrast, "legal and appropriate advice that would be protected by the First Amendment, yet prohibited by a broad reading of §526(a)(4), should cause no damage at all." Ibid.; see Hersh, 541 F. 3d, at 760.     Milavetz contends that the Government's sources actually undermine its claim that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy necessarily refers to abusive conduct. Specifically, Milavetz argues that these authorities illustrate that "in contemplation of" bankruptcy is a neutral phrase that only implies abusive conduct when attached to an additional, proscriptive term. As Black's states, the phrase is "often coupled with action designed to thwart the distribution of assets" in bankruptcy, Black's 336 (emphasis added), but it carries no independent connotation of abuse. In support of that conclusion, Milavetz relies on our decision in Pender, 289 U. S. 472, contending that we construed "in contemplation of" bankruptcy in that case to describe "conduct with a view to a probable bankruptcy filing and nothing more." Brief for Milavetz 61.     After reviewing these competing claims, we are persuaded that a narrower reading of §526(a)(4) is sounder, although we do not adopt precisely the view the Government advocates. The Government's sources show that the phrase "in contemplation of" bankruptcy has so commonly been associated with abusive conduct that it may readily be understood to prefigure abuse. As used in §526(a)(4), however, we think the phrase refers to a specific type of misconduct designed to manipulate the protections of the bankruptcy system. In light of our decision in Pender, and in context of other sections of the Code, we conclude that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising a debtor to incur more debt because the debtor is filing for bankruptcy, rather than for a valid purpose.     Pender addressed the meaning of former §96(d), which authorized reexamination of a debtor's payment of attorney's fees "in contemplation of the filing of a petition." Recognizing " 'the temptation of a failing debtor to deal too liberally with his property in enabling counsel to protect him,' " 289 U. S., at 478 (quoting In re Wood & Henderson, 210 U. S. 246, 253 (1908)), we read "in contemplation of ... filing" in that context to require that the portended bankruptcy have "induce[d]" the transfer at issue, 289 U. S., at 477, understanding inducement to engender suspicion of abuse. In so construing the statute, we identified the "controlling question" as "whether the thought of bankruptcy was the impelling cause of the transaction." Ibid. Given the substantial similarities between §§96(d) and 526(a)(4), we think the controlling question under the latter provision is likewise whether the impelling reason for "advis[ing] an assisted person ... to incur more debt" was the prospect of filing for bankruptcy.     To be sure, there are relevant differences between the provision at issue in Pender and the one now under review. Most notably, the inquiry in Pender was as to payments made on the eve of bankruptcy, whereas §526(a)(4) regards advice to incur additional debts. Consistent with that difference, under §96(d) a finding that a payment was made "in contemplation of" filing resolved only a threshold inquiry triggering further review of the reasonableness of the payment; the finding thus supported an inference of abuse but did not conclusively establish it. By contrast, advice to incur more debt because of bankruptcy, as prohibited by §526(a)(4), will generally consist of advice to "load up" on debt with the expectation of obtaining its discharge--i.e., conduct that is abusive per se.     The statutory context supports the conclusion that §526(a)(4)'s prohibition primarily targets this type of abuse. Code provisions predating the BAPCPA already sought to prevent the practice of loading up on debt prior to filing. Section 523(a)(2), for instance, addressed the attendant risk of manipulation by preventing the discharge of debts obtained by false pretenses and making debts for purchases of luxury goods or services presumptively nondischargeable. See §§523(a)(2)(A) and (C) (2000 ed.). The BAPCPA increased the risk of such abuse, however, by providing a new mechanism for determining a debtor's ability to repay. Pursuant to the "means tes[t]," §707(b)(2)(D) (2006 ed.), a debtor's petition for Chapter 7 relief is presumed abusive (and may therefore be dismissed or converted to a structured repayment plan under Chapter 13) if the debtor's current monthly income exceeds his statutorily allowed expenses, including payments for secured debt, by more than a prescribed amount. See §§707(b)(2)(A)(i)-(iv). The test promotes debtor accountability but also enhances incentives to incur additional debt prior to filing, as payments on secured debts offset a debtor's monthly income under the formula. Other amendments effected by the BAPCPA reflect a concern with this practice. For instance, Congress amended §523(a)(2) to expand the exceptions to discharge by lowering the threshold amount of new debt a debtor must assume to trigger the presumption of abuse under §523(a)(2)(C), and it extended the relevant prefiling window. See §310, 119 Stat. 84. In context, §526(a)(4) is best understood to provide an additional safeguard against the practice of loading up on debt prior to filing.     The Government's contextual arguments provide additional support for the view that §526(a)(4) was meant to prevent this type of conduct. The companion rules of professional conduct in §§526(a)(1)-(3) and the remedies for their violation in §526(c) indicate that Congress was concerned with actions that threaten to harm debtors or creditors. Unlike the reasonable financial advice the Eighth Circuit's broad reading would proscribe, advice to incur more debt because of bankruptcy presents a substantial risk of injury to both debtors and creditors. See Hersh, 553 F. 3d, at 760-761. Specifically, the incurrence of such debt stands to harm a debtor if his prepetition conduct leads a court to hold his debts nondischargable, see §523(a)(2), convert his case to another chapter, or dismiss it altogether, see §707(b), thereby defeating his effort to obtain bankruptcy relief. If a debt, although manipulatively incurred, is not timely identified as abusive and therefore is discharged, creditors will suffer harm as a result of the discharge and the consequent dilution of the bankruptcy estate. By contrast, the prudent advice that the Eighth Circuit's view of the statute forbids would likely benefit both debtors and creditors and at the very least should cause no harm. See id., at 760; 541 F. 3d, at 800 (Colloton, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). For all of these reasons, we conclude that §526(a)(4) prohibits a debt relief agency only from advising an assisted person to incur more debt when the impelling reason for the advice is the anticipation of bankruptcy.     That "[n]o other solution yields as sensible a" result further persuades us of the correctness of this narrow reading. United States v. Granderson, 511 U. S. 39, 55 (1994). It would make scant sense to prevent attorneys and other debt relief agencies from advising individuals thinking of filing for bankruptcy about options that would be beneficial to both those individuals and their creditors. That construction serves none of the purposes of the Bankruptcy Code or the amendments enacted through the BAPCPA. Milavetz itself acknowledges that its expansive view of §526(a)(4) would produce absurd results; that is one of its bases for arguing that "debt relief agency" should be construed to exclude attorneys. Because the language and context of §526(a)(4) evidence a more targeted purpose, we can avoid the absurdity of which Milavetz complains without reaching the result it advocates.     For the same reason, we reject Milavetz's suggestion that §526(a)(4) broadly prohibits debt relief agencies from discussing covered subjects instead of merely proscribing affirmative advice to undertake a particular action. Section 526(a)(4) by its terms prevents debt relief agencies only from "advis[ing]" assisted persons "to incur" more debt. Covered professionals remain free to "tal[k] fully and candidly about the incurrence of debt in contemplation of filing a bankruptcy case." Brief for Milavetz 73. Section 526(a)(4) requires professionals only to avoid instructing or encouraging assisted persons to take on more debt in that circumstance. Cf. ABA Model Rule of Professional Conduct 1.2(d) (2009) ("A lawyer shall not counsel a client to engage, or assist a client, in conduct that the lawyer knows is criminal or fraudulent, but a lawyer may discuss the legal consequences of any proposed course of conduct with a client and may counsel or assist a client to make a good faith effort to determine the validity, scope, meaning or application of the law"). Even if the statute were not clear in this regard, we would reach the same conclusion about its scope because the inhibition of frank discussion serves no conceivable purpose within the statutory scheme. Cf. Johnson v. United States, 529 U. S. 694, 706, n. 9 (2000).5     Finally, we reject Milavetz's contention that, narrowly construed, §526(a)(4) is impermissibly vague. Milavetz urges that the concept of abusive prefiling conduct is too indefinite to withstand constitutional scrutiny and that uncertainty regarding the scope of the prohibition will chill protected speech. We disagree.     Under our reading of the statute, of course, the prohibited advice is not defined in terms of abusive prefiling conduct but rather the incurrence of additional debt when the impelling reason is the anticipation of bankruptcy. Even if the test depended upon the notion of abuse, however, Milavetz's claim would be fatally undermined by other provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, to which that concept is no stranger. As discussed above, the Code authorizes a bankruptcy court to decline to discharge fraudulent debts, see §523(a)(2), or to dismiss a case or convert it to a case under another chapter if it finds that granting relief would constitute abuse, see §707(b)(1). Attorneys and other professionals who give debtors bankruptcy advice must know of these provisions and their consequences for a debtor who in bad faith incurs additional debt prior to filing. Indeed, §707(b)(4)(C) states that an attorney's signature on bankruptcy filings "shall constitute a certification that the attorney has" determined that the filing "does not constitute an abuse under [§707(b)(1)]." Against this backdrop, it is hard to see how a rule that narrowly prohibits an attorney from affirmatively advising a client to commit this type of abusive prefiling conduct could chill attorney speech or inhibit the attorney-client relationship. Our construction of §526(a)(4) to prevent only advice principally motivated by the prospect of bankruptcy further ensures that professionals cannot unknowingly run afoul of its proscription.6 Because the scope of the prohibition is adequately defined, both on its own terms and by reference to the Code's other provisions, we reject Milavetz's vagueness claim.     As the foregoing shows, the language of the statute, together with other evidence of its purpose, makes this narrow reading of §526(a)(4) not merely a plausible interpretation but the more natural one. Accordingly, we reject the Eighth Circuit's conclusion and hold that a debt relief agency violates §526(a)(4) only when the impetus of the advice to incur more debt is the expectation of filing for bankruptcy and obtaining the attendant relief. Because our reading of the statute supplies a sufficient ground for reversing the Court of Appeals' decision, and because Milavetz challenges the constitutionality of the statute, as narrowed, only on vagueness grounds, we need not further consider whether the statute so construed withstands First Amendment scrutiny.C     Finally, we address the validity of §528's challenged disclosure requirements. Our first task in resolving this question is to determine the contours of Milavetz's claim. Although the nature of its challenge is not entirely clear from the briefing or decisions below, counsel for Milavetz insisted at oral argument that this is "not a facial challenge; it's an as-applied challenge." Tr. of Oral Arg. 26. We will approach the question consistent with Milavetz's characterization.7     We next consider the standard of scrutiny applicable to §528's disclosure requirements. The parties agree, as do we, that the challenged provisions regulate only commercial speech. Milavetz contends that our decision in Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y., 447 U. S. 557 (1980), supplies the proper standard for reviewing these requirements. The Court in that case held that restrictions on nonmisleading commercial speech regarding lawful activity must withstand intermediate scrutiny--that is, they must "directly advanc[e]" a substantial governmental interest and be "n[o] more extensive than is necessary to serve that interest." Id., at 566. Contesting Milavetz's premise, the Government maintains that §528 is directed at misleading commercial speech. For that reason, and because the challenged provisions impose a disclosure requirement rather than an affirmative limitation on speech, the Government contends that the less exacting scrutiny described in Zauderer governs our review. We agree.     Zauderer addressed the validity of a rule of professional conduct that required attorneys who advertised contingency-fee services to disclose in their advertisements that a losing client might still be responsible for certain litigation fees and costs. Noting that First Amendment protection for commercial speech is justified in large part by the information's value to consumers, the Court concluded that an attorney's constitutionally protected interest in not providing the required factual information is "minimal." 471 U. S., at 651. Unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements offend the First Amendment by chilling protected speech, but "an advertiser's rights are adequately protected as long as disclosure requirements are reasonably related to the State's interest in preventing deception of consumers." Ibid.     The challenged provisions of §528 share the essential features of the rule at issue in Zauderer. As in that case, §528's required disclosures are intended to combat the problem of inherently misleading commercial advertisements--specifically, the promise of debt relief without any reference to the possibility of filing for bankruptcy, which has inherent costs. Additionally, the disclosures entail only an accurate statement identifying the advertiser's legal status and the character of the assistance provided, and they do not prevent debt relief agencies like Milavetz from conveying any additional information.     The same characteristics of §528 that make it analogous to the rule in Zauderer serve to distinguish it from those at issue in In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191 (1982), to which the Court applied the intermediate scrutiny of Central Hudson. The ethical rules addressed in R. M. J. prohibited attorneys from advertising their practice areas in terms other than those prescribed by the State Supreme Court and from announcing the courts in which they were admitted to practice. See 455 U. S., at 197-198. Finding that the restricted statements were not inherently misleading and that the State had failed to show that the appellant's advertisements were themselves likely to mislead consumers, see id., at 205, the Court applied Central Hudson's intermediate scrutiny and invalidated the restrictions as insufficiently tailored to any substantial state interest, 455 U. S., at 205-206. In so holding, the Court emphasized that States retain authority to regulate inherently misleading advertisements, particularly through disclosure requirements, and it noted that advertisements for professional services pose a special risk of deception. See id., at 203, 207.     Milavetz makes much of the fact that the Government in these consolidated cases has adduced no evidence that its advertisements are misleading. Zauderer forecloses that argument: "When the possibility of deception is as self-evident as it is in this case, we need not require the State to 'conduct a survey of the ... public before it [may] determine that the [advertisement] had a tendency to mislead.' " 471 U. S., at 652-653 (quoting FTC v. Colgate-Palmolive Co., 380 U. S. 374, 391-392 (1965)). Evidence in the congressional record demonstrating a pattern of advertisements that hold out the promise of debt relief without alerting consumers to its potential cost, see 1998 Hearings, pt. III, at 86, 90-94, is adequate to establish that the likelihood of deception in this case "is hardly a speculative one," 471 U. S., at 652.     Milavetz alternatively argues that the term "debt relief agency" is confusing and misleading and that requiring its inclusion in advertisements cannot be "reasonably related" to the Government's interest in preventing consumer deception, as Zauderer requires. Id., at 651. This contention amounts to little more than a preference on Milavetz's part for referring to itself as something other than a "debt relief agency"--e.g., an attorney or a law firm. For several reasons, we conclude that this preference lacks any constitutional basis. First, Milavetz offers no evidence to support its claim that the label is confusing. Because §528 by its terms applies only to debt relief agencies, the disclosures are necessarily accurate to that extent: Only debt relief agencies must identify themselves as such in their advertisements. This statement provides interested observers with pertinent information about the advertiser's services and client obligations.     Other information that Milavetz must or may include in its advertisements for bankruptcy-assistance services provides additional assurance that consumers will not misunderstand the term. The required statement that the advertiser " 'help[s] people file for bankruptcy relief' " gives meaningful context to the term "debt relief agency." And Milavetz may further identify itself as a law firm or attorney. Section 528 also gives Milavetz flexibility to tailor the disclosures to its individual circumstances, as long as the resulting statements are "substantially similar" to the statutory examples. §§528(a)(4) and (b)(2)(B).     Finally, we reject Milavetz's argument that §528 is not reasonably related to any governmental interest because it applies equally to attorneys who represent creditors, as Milavetz sometimes does. The required disclosures, Milavetz contends, would be counterfactual and misleading in that context. This claim is premised on an untenable reading of the statute. We think it evident from the definition of "assisted person"--which is stated in terms of the person's debts, see §101(3)--and from the text and structure of the debt-relief-agency provisions in §§526, 527, and 528 that those provisions, including §528's disclosure requirements, govern only professionals who offer bankruptcy-related services to consumer debtors. Section 528 is itself expressly concerned with advertisements pertaining to "bankruptcy assistance services," "the benefits of bankruptcy," "excessive debt, debt collection pressure, or inability to pay any consumer debt," §§528(a)(3) and (b)(2). Moreover, like the other debt-relief-agency provisions, that section is codified in a subchapter of the Bankruptcy Code entitled "debtor's duties and benefits." 11 U. S. C., ch. 5, subch. II. In context, reading §528 to govern advertisements aimed at creditors would be as anomalous as the result of which Milavetz complains. Once again, we decline Milavetz's invitation to adopt a view of the statute that is contrary to its plain meaning and would produce an absurd result.     Because §528's requirements that Milavetz identify itself as a debt relief agency and include certain information about its bankruptcy-assistance and related services are "reasonably related to the [Government's] interest in preventing deception of consumers," Zauderer, 471 U. S., at 651, we uphold those provisions as applied to Milavetz.IV     For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit is affirmed as to §§101(12A) and 528 and reversed as to §526(a)(4), and the cases are remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.It is so ordered.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Scalia, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.     I join the opinion of the Court, except for footnote 3, which notes that the legislative history supports what the statute unambiguously says. The Court first notes that statements in the Report of the House Committee on the Judiciary "indicate concern with abusive practices undertaken by attorneys." Ante, at 6, n. 3. Perhaps, but only the concern of the author of the Report. Such statements tell us nothing about what the statute means, since (1) we do not know that the members of the Committee read the Report, (2) it is almost certain that they did not vote on the Report (that is not the practice), and (3) even if they did read and vote on it, they were not, after all, those who made this law. The statute before us is a law because its text was approved by a majority vote of the House and the Senate, and was signed by the President. Even indulging the extravagant assumption that Members of the House other than members of its Committee on the Judiciary read the Report (and the further extravagant assumption that they agreed with it), the Members of the Senate could not possibly have read it, since it did not exist when the Senate passed the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005. And the President surely had more important things to do.     The footnote's other source of legislative history is truly mystifying. For the proposition that "the legislative record elsewhere documents misconduct by attorneys" which was presumably the concern of Congress, the Court cites a reproduction of a tasteless advertisement that was (1) an attachment to the written statement of a witness, (2) in a hearing held seven years prior to this statute's passage, (3) before a subcommittee of the House considering a different consumer bankruptcy reform bill that never passed.* "Elsewhere" indeed.     The Court acknowledges that nothing can be gained by this superfluous citation (it admits the footnote is "unnecessary in light of the statute's unambiguous language," ante, at 6, n. 3). But much can be lost. Our cases have said that legislative history is irrelevant when the statutory text is clear. See, e.g., United States v. Gonzales, 520 U. S. 1, 6 (1997); Connecticut Nat. Bank v. Germain, 503 U. S. 249, 254 (1992). The footnote advises conscientious attorneys that this is not true, and that they must spend time and their clients' treasure combing the annals of legislative history in all cases: To buttress their case where the statutory text is unambiguously in their favor; and to attack an unambiguous text that is against them. If legislative history is relevant to confirm that a clear text means what it says, it is presumably relevant to show that an apparently clear text does not mean what it seems to say. Even for those who believe in the legal fiction that committee reports reflect congressional intent, footnote 3 is a bridge too far.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al., PETITIONERS08-1119     v.UNITED STATESUNITED STATES, PETITIONER08-1225     v.MILAVETZ, GALLOP & MILAVETZ, P. A., et al.on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit[March 8, 2010]     Justice Thomas, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.     I concur in the judgment and join all but Part III-C of the Court's opinion. I agree with the Court that 11 U. S. C. §528's advertising disclosure requirements survive First Amendment scrutiny on the record before us. I write separately because different reasons lead me to that conclusion.     I have never been persuaded that there is any basis in the First Amendment for the relaxed scrutiny this Court applies to laws that suppress nonmisleading commercial speech. See 44 Liquormart, Inc. v. Rhode Island, 517 U. S. 484, 522-523 (1996) (opinion concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (discussing Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y., 447 U. S. 557 (1980)). In this case, the Court applies a still lower standard of scrutiny to review a law that compels the disclosure of commercial speech--i.e., the rule articulated in Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626 (1985), that laws that require the disclosure of factual information in commercial advertising may be upheld so long as they are "reasonably related" to the government's interest in preventing consumer deception, id., at 651.     I am skeptical of the premise on which Zauderer rests--that, in the commercial-speech context, "the First Amendment interests implicated by disclosure requirements are substantially weaker than those at stake when speech is actually suppressed," id., at 652, n. 14; see id., at 650 (citing "material differences between disclosure requirements and outright prohibitions on speech"). We have refused in other contexts to attach any "constitutional significance" to the difference between regulations that compel protected speech and regulations that restrict it. See, e.g., Riley v. National Federation of Blind of N. C., Inc., 487 U. S. 781, 796-797 (1988). I see no reason why that difference should acquire constitutional significance merely because the regulations at issue involve commercial speech. See Glickman v. Wileman Brothers & Elliott, Inc., 521 U. S. 457, 480-481 (1997) (Souter, J., dissenting) (arguing that "commercial speech is ... subject to [this] First Amendment principle: that compelling cognizable speech officially is just as suspect as suppressing it, and is typically subject to the same level of scrutiny"); id., at 504 (Thomas, J., dissenting); cf. United States v. United Foods, Inc., 533 U. S. 405, 419 (2001) (Thomas, J., concurring) (stating that regulations that compel funding for commercial advertising "must be subjected to the most stringent First Amendment scrutiny").     Accordingly, I would be willing to reexamine Zauderer and its progeny in an appropriate case to determine whether these precedents provide sufficient First Amendment protection against government-mandated disclosures.1 Because no party asks us to do so here, however, I agree with the Court that the Zauderer standard governs our review of the challenge to §528 brought by the Milavetz law firm and the other plaintiffs in this action (hereinafter Milavetz).     Yet even under Zauderer, we "have not presumptively endorsed" laws requiring the use of "government-scripted disclaimers" in commercial advertising. See Borgner v. Florida Bd. of Dentistry, 537 U. S. 1080, 1082 (2002) (Thomas, J., dissenting from denial of certiorari). Zauderer upheld the imposition of sanctions against an attorney under a rule of professional conduct that required advertisements for contingency-fee services to disclose that losing clients might be responsible for litigation fees and costs. See 471 U. S., at 650-653. Importantly, however, Zauderer's advertisement was found to be misleading on its face, and the regulation in that case did not mandate the specific form or text of the disclosure. Ibid. Thus, Zauderer does not stand for the proposition that the government can constitutionally compel the use of a scripted disclaimer in any circumstance in which its interest in preventing consumer deception might plausibly be at stake. In other words, a bare assertion by the government that a disclosure requirement is "intended" to prevent consumer deception, standing alone, is not sufficient to uphold the requirement as applied to all speech that falls within its sweep. See ante, at 20.     Instead, our precedents make clear that regulations aimed at false or misleading advertisements are permissible only where "the particular advertising is inherently likely to deceive or where the record indicates that a particular form or method of advertising has in fact been deceptive." In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191, 202 (1982) (emphasis added); see Zauderer, supra, at 651 ("recogniz[ing] that unjustified or unduly burdensome disclosure requirements might offend the First Amendment"). Therefore, a disclosure requirement passes constitutional muster only to the extent that it is aimed at advertisements that, by their nature, possess these traits. See R. M. J., supra, at 202; Ibanez v. Florida Dept. of Business and Professional Regulation, Bd. of Accountancy, 512 U. S. 136, 143, 146-147 (1994).     I do not read the Court's opinion to hold otherwise. See ante, at 20. Accordingly, and with that understanding, I turn to the question whether Milavetz's challenge to §528's disclosure requirements survives Zauderer scrutiny on the record before us.     As the Court notes, the posture of Milavetz's challenge inhibits our review of its First Amendment claim. See ante, at 19, n. 7. Milavetz challenged §528's constitutionality before the statute had ever been enforced against any of the firm's advertisements. Although Milavetz purports to challenge §528 only " 'as-applied' " to its own advertising, see ante, at 19, it did not introduce any evidence or exhibits to substantiate its claim. Thus, no court has seen a sampling of Milavetz's advertisements or even a declaration describing their contents and the media through which Milavetz seeks to transmit them. As a consequence, Milavetz's nominal "as applied" challenge appears strikingly similar to a facial challenge.     We generally disapprove of such challenges because they "often rest on speculation" and require courts to engage in " 'premature interpretation of statutes on the basis of factually barebones records.' " Washington State Grange v. Washington State Republican Party, 552 U. S. 442, 450 (2008) (quoting Sabri v. United States, 541 U. S. 600, 609 (2004)). Milavetz's claim invites the same problems. Milavetz alleges that §528's disclosure requirements are unconstitutional as applied to its advertisements because its advertisements are not misleading and because the disclaimer required by §528 will create, rather than reduce, confusion for Milavetz's potential clients. That may well be true. But because no record evidence of Milavetz's advertisements exists to guide our review, we can only speculate about the ways in which the statute might be applied to Milavetz's speech.     When forced to determine the constitutionality of a statute based solely on such conjecture, we will uphold the law if there is any "conceivabl[e]" manner in which it can be enforced consistent with the First Amendment. Washington State Grange, supra, at 456. In this case, both parties agree that §528's disclosure requirements cover, at a minimum, deceptive advertisements that promise to " 'wipe out' " debts without mentioning bankruptcy as the means of accomplishing this goal.2 Brief for Milavetz 82, 86; Brief for United States 60-62. As a result, there is at least one set of facts on which the statute could be constitutionally applied. Thus, I agree with the Court that Milavetz's challenge to §528 must fail.FOOTNOTESSection 340B of the Public Health Services Act imposes ceilings on prices drug manufacturers may charge for medications sold to specified health care facilities (340B or covered entities), dominantly, local providers of medical care for the poor. The §340B ceiling-price program (340B Program) is superintended by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), part of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). It is tied to the earlier-enacted, much larger Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, under which manufacturers gain Medicaid coverage for their drugs. To qualify for participation in this program, a manufacturer must enter into a standardized agreement with HHS undertaking to provide rebates to States on their Medicaid drug purchases. The amount of the rebates depends on a manufacturer's "average" and "best" prices, as defined by legislation and regulation. The 340B Program, like the Medicaid Rebate Program, uses a form contract as an opt-in mechanism. The 340B Program also draws on the larger scheme's pricing methodology. In the 340B Program's contract, called the Pharmaceutical Pricing Agreement (PPA), manufacturers agree to charge covered entities no more than predetermined ceiling prices, derived from the "average" and "best" prices and rebates calculated under the Medicaid Rebate Program.          HRSA may require a manufacturer who overcharges a covered entity to reimburse that entity. HRSA may also terminate the manufacturer's PPA, which terminates as well the manufacturer's eligibility for Medicaid coverage of its drugs. Currently, HRSA handles overcharge complaints through informal procedures, but the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) directs the Secretary to develop formal procedures. Once those procedures are in place, HRSA will reach an "administrative resolution," which will be subject to judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA). In addition to authorizing compensation awards to overcharged entities, the PPACA provides for the imposition of monetary penalties payable to the Government.          Respondent Santa Clara County (County), operator of several 340B entities, filed suit against Astra and eight other pharmaceutical companies, alleging that they were overcharging 340B entities in violation of the PPAs. Asserting that 340B entities are the PPAs' intended beneficiaries, the County sought compensatory damages for breach of contract. The District Court dismissed the complaint, concluding that the PPAs conferred no enforceable rights on 340B entities. Reversing, the Ninth Circuit held that, while 340B entities have no right to sue under the statute, they could proceed against drug manufacturers as third-party beneficiaries of the PPAs.Held: Suits by 340B entities to enforce ceiling-price contracts running between drug manufacturers and the Secretary of HHS are incompatible with the statutory regime. As the County has conceded, covered entities have no right of action under §340B itself. Congress vested authority to oversee compliance with the 340B Program in HHS and assigned no auxiliary enforcement role to covered entities. Nonetheless, the County maintains that the PPAs are contracts enforceable by covered entities as third-party beneficiaries. This argument overlooks that the PPAs simply incorporate statutory obligations and record the manufacturers' agreement to abide by them. The agreements have no negotiable terms. Like the Medicaid Rebate Program agreements, the PPAs provide the means by which drug manufacturers opt into the statutory scheme. A third-party suit to enforce an HHS-drug manufacturer agreement, therefore, is in essence a suit to enforce the statute itself. Telling in this regard, the County based its suit on allegations that the manufacturers charged more than the §340B ceiling price, not that they violated an independent substantive obligation arising from the PPAs.     The Ninth Circuit reasoned that suits like the County's would spread the enforcement burden instead of placing it entirely on the Government. But spreading the enforcement burden is hardly what Congress contemplated when it made HHS administrator of the interdependent Medicaid Rebate Program and 340B Program. Suits by 340B entities would undermine the agency's efforts to administer these two programs harmoniously and uniformly. Notably, the Medicaid Rebate Program's statute prohibits HHS from disclosing pricing information that could reveal the prices a manufacturer charges for its drugs. Had Congress meant to leave open the prospect of third-party beneficiary suits by 340B entities, it likely would not have barred them from obtaining the very information necessary to determine whether their asserted rights have been violated.     The Ninth Circuit noted that HHS's Office of the Inspector General has reported on HRSA's inadequate enforcement authority. But Congress did not respond to the reports of lax enforcement by inviting 340B entities to launch lawsuits. Instead, Congress opted to strengthen and formalize HRSA's enforcement authority, to make the new adjudicative framework the proper remedy for covered entities' complaints, and to render the agency's resolution of those complaints binding, subject to judicial review under the APA. Pp. 5-10.588 F. 3d 1237, reversed.     Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which all other Members joined, except Kagan, J., who took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.ASTRA USA, INC., et al., PETITIONERS v. SANTA CLARA COUNTY, CALIFORNIAon writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit[March 29, 2011]     Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.     Section 340B of the Public Health Services Act, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b (Oct. 2010 Supp.), imposes ceilings on prices drug manufacturers may charge for medications sold to specified health care facilities. Those facilities, here called "340B" or "covered" entities, include public hospitals and community health centers, many of them providers of safety-net services to the poor. The §340B ceiling-price program (340B Program) is superintended by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), a unit of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Drug manufacturers opt into the 340B Program by signing a form Pharmaceutical Pricing Agreement (PPA) used nationwide. PPAs are not transactional, bargained-for contracts. They are uniform agreements that recite the responsibilities §340B imposes, respectively, on drug manufacturers and the Secretary of HHS. Manufacturers' eligibility to participate in state Medicaid programs is conditioned on their entry into PPAs for covered drugs purchased by 340B entities.     It is conceded that Congress authorized no private right of action under §340B for covered entities who claim they have been charged prices exceeding the statutory ceiling. This case presents the question whether 340B entities, though accorded no right to sue for overcharges under the statute itself, may nonetheless sue allegedly overcharging manufacturers as third-party beneficiaries of the PPAs to which the manufacturers subscribed. We hold that suits by 340B entities to enforce ceiling-price contracts running between drug manufacturers and the Secretary of HHS are incompatible with the statutory regime.     Congress placed the Secretary (acting through her designate, HRSA) in control of §340B's drug-price prescriptions. That control could not be maintained were potentially thousands of covered entities permitted to bring suits alleging errors in manufacturers' price calculations. If 340B entities may not sue under the statute, it would make scant sense to allow them to sue on a form contract implementing the statute, setting out terms identical to those contained in the statute. Though labeled differently, suits to enforce §340B and suits to enforce PPAs are in substance one and the same. Their treatment, therefore, must be the same, "[n]o matter the clothing in which [340B entities] dress their claims." Tenet v. Doe, 544 U. S. 1, 8 (2005).IA     The 340B Program is tied to the earlier-enacted, much larger Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. Adopted by Congress in 1990, the Medicaid Rebate Program covers a significant portion of drug purchases in the United States. See GAO, J. Dicken, Prescription Drugs: Oversight of Drug Pricing in Federal Programs 1 (GAO-07-481T, 2007) (testimony before the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, House of Representatives).1 To gain payment under Medicaid for covered drugs, a manufacturer must enter a standardized agreement with HHS; in the agreement, the manufacturer undertakes to provide rebates to States on their Medicaid drug purchases. 104 Stat. 1388-143, as amended, 124 Stat. 3290, 42 U. S. C. A. §1396r-8(a). The amount of the rebates depends on the manufacturer's "average" and "best" prices, as defined by legislation and regulation. §1396r-8(c), (k).     Calculation of a manufacturer's "average" and "best" prices, undertaken by the pharmaceutical company, is a complex enterprise requiring recourse to detailed information about the company's sales and pricing. §1396r-8(k); 42 CFR §447.500-520 (2010). To enable HHS to calculate the rebate rate for each drug, manufacturers submit the relevant data to HHS on a quarterly basis. §1396r-8(b)(3). With exceptions set out in the legislation, HHS is prohibited from disclosing the submitted information "in a form which discloses the identity of a specific manufacturer ... [or] prices charged for drugs by such manu-facturer." §1396r-8(b)(3)(D).     Under §340B, added in 1992, 106 Stat. 4967, as amended, 124 Stat. 823, manufacturers participating in Medicaid must offer discounted drugs to covered entities, dominantly, local facilities that provide medical care for the poor. See §256b(a); §1396r-8(a)(1). The 340B Program, like the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, employs a form contract as an opt-in mechanism. The 340B Program also draws on the larger scheme's pricing methodology. In their 340B Program contracts with HHS, called Pharmaceutical Pricing Agreements (PPAs), see supra, at 1, manufacturers agree to charge covered entities no more than predetermined ceiling prices, derived from the "average" and "best" prices and rebates calculated under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. §256b(a)(1); see App. to Pet. for Cert. 165a-171a (PPA §I-II).2     If a manufacturer overcharges a covered entity, HRSA may require the manufacturer to reimburse the covered entity; HRSA may also terminate the manufacturer's PPA, §1396r-8(b)(4)(B)(i), (v); App. to Pet. for Cert. 174a (PPA §IV(c)), which terminates as well the manufacturer's eligibility for Medicaid coverage of its drugs, §1396r-8(a)(1), (5). Currently, HRSA handles overcharge complaints through informal procedures. Manufacturer Audit Guidelines and Dispute Resolution Process, 61 Fed. Reg. 65412 (1996). The 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), Pub. L. 111-148, 124 Stat. 119, provides for more rigorous enforcement. The PPACA directs the Secretary to develop formal procedures for resolving overcharge claims. Id., at 826, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d) (3)(A). Under those procedures, which are not yet in place, HRSA will reach an "administrative resolution" that is subject to judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5 U. S. C. §701 et seq. See 124 Stat. 827, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d)(3)(C). In addition to authorizing compensation awards to overcharged entities, the PPACA provides for the imposition of monetary penalties payable to the Government. Id., at 824-825, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d)(1)(B)(ii), (vi).B     Respondent Santa Clara County (County), operator of several 340B entities, commenced suit against Astra and eight other pharmaceutical companies, alleging that the companies were overcharging 340B health care facilities in violation of the PPAs to which the companies subscribed. The County styled its suit a class action on behalf of both 340B entities in California and the counties that fund those entities. Asserting that the 340B entities and the counties that fund them are the intended beneficiaries of the PPAs, the County sought compensatory damages for the pharmaceutical companies' breach of contract.     The District Court dismissed the complaint, concluding that the PPAs conferred no enforceable rights on 340B entities. Reversing the District Court's judgment, the Ninth Circuit held that covered entities, although they have no right to sue under the statute, could maintain the action as third-party beneficiaries of the PPAs. 588 F. 3d 1237, 1241 (2009).     We granted certiorari, 561 U. S. ___ (2010),3 and now reverse the Ninth Circuit's judgment.II     As the County conceded below and before this Court, see 588 F. 3d, at 1249; Tr. of Oral Arg. 45, covered entities have no right of action under §340B itself. "[R]ecognition of any private right of action for violating a federal statute," currently governing decisions instruct, "must ultimately rest on congressional intent to provide a private remedy." Virginia Bankshares, Inc. v. Sandberg, 501 U. S. 1083, 1102 (1991). See also Stoneridge Investment Partners, LLC v. Scientific-Atlanta, Inc., 552 U. S. 148, 164 (2008); Alexander v. Sandoval, 532 U. S. 275, 286 (2001). Congress vested authority to oversee compliance with the 340B Program in HHS and assigned no auxiliary enforcement role to covered entities.     Notwithstanding its inability to assert a statutory right of action, the County maintains that the PPAs implementing the 340B Program are agreements enforceable by covered entities as third-party beneficiaries. A nonparty becomes legally entitled to a benefit promised in a contract, the County recognizes, only if the contracting parties so intend. Brief for Respondent 31 (citing Restatement (Second) of Contracts §302(1)(b) (1979)). The PPAs "specifically nam[e]" covered entities as the recipients of discounted drugs, the County observes; indeed the very object of the agreements is to ensure that those entities would be "charge[d] ... no more than the ceiling price." Brief for Respondent 33. When the Government uses a contract to secure a benefit, the County urges, the intended recipient acquires a right to the benefit enforceable under federal common law. Id., at 30. But see 9 J. Murray, Corbin on Contracts §45.6, p. 92 (rev. ed. 2007) ("The distinction between an intention to benefit a third party and an intention that the third party should have the right to enforce that intention is emphasized where the promisee is a governmental entity.").     The County's argument overlooks that the PPAs simply incorporate statutory obligations and record the manufacturers' agreement to abide by them. The form agreements, composed by HHS, contain no negotiable terms. Like the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program agreements, see supra, at 3, the 340B Program agreements serve as the means by which drug manufacturers opt into the statutory scheme. A third-party suit to enforce an HHS-drug manufacturer agreement, therefore, is in essence a suit to enforce the statute itself. The absence of a private right to enforce the statutory ceiling price obligations would be rendered meaningless if 340B entities could overcome that obstacle by suing to enforce the contract's ceiling price obligations instead. The statutory and contractual obligations, in short, are one and the same. See Grochowski v. Phoenix Construction, 318 F. 3d 80, 86 (CA2 2003) (when a government contract confirms a statutory obligation, "a third-party private contract action [to enforce that obligation] would be inconsistent with ... the legislative scheme ... to the same extent as would a cause of action directly under the statute" (internal quotation marks omitted)).     Telling in this regard, the County based its suit on allegations that the manufacturers charged more than the §340B ceiling price, see, e.g., Third Amended Complaint in No. 3:05-cv-03740 (ND Cal.), ¶1, 65, not that they violated any independent substantive obligation arising only from the PPAs.4 Repeatedly, the County acknowledged that §340B is the source of the contractual term allegedly breached. See, e.g., id., ¶28 ("[Section] 340B requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to ensure that §340B Participants pay no more than the 'ceiling price' ... for any pharmaceutical product."); id., ¶36 ("Under both §340B and the PPA, [drug manufacturers] are required to ensure that the §340B Participants ... pay no more for any product than the §340B ceiling price.").     The Ninth Circuit determined that "[p]ermitting covered entities to sue as intended beneficiaries of the PPA is ... wholly compatible with the Section 340B program's objectives" to ensure "that drug companies comply with their obligations under the program and provide [the required] discounts." 588 F. 3d, at 1251. Suits like the County's, the Court of Appeals reasoned, would spread the enforcement burden instead of placing it "[entirely] on the government." Ibid. (citing Price v. Pierce, 823 F. 2d 1114, 1121 (CA7 1987)). But spreading the enforcement burden, the United States stressed, both in the Ninth Circuit and in this Court, is hardly what Congress contemplated when it "centralized enforcement in the government." Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 32; see Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae in No. 09-15216 (CA9), p. 13 (County's challenge is at odds with Congress' unitary administrative and enforcement scheme).5     Congress made HHS administrator of both the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and the 340B Program, the United States observed, Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 33-34, and "[t]he interdependent nature of the two programs' requirements means that an adjudication of rights under one program must proceed with an eye towards any implications for the other," id., at 34. Far from assisting HHS, suits by 340B entities would undermine the agency's efforts to administer both Medicaid and §340B harmoniously and on a uniform, nationwide basis.6 Recognizing the County's right to proceed in court could spawn a multitude of dispersed and uncoordinated lawsuits by 340B entities. With HHS unable to hold the control rein, the risk of conflicting adjudications would be substantial.     As earlier noted, see supra, at 3, the Medicaid Rebate Program's statute prohibits HHS from disclosing pricing information in a form that could reveal the prices a manufacturer charges for drugs it produces. §1396r-8(b)(3)(D).7 This ban on disclosure is a further indication of the incompatibility of private suits with the statute Congress enacted. If Congress meant to leave open the prospect of third-party beneficiary suits by 340B entities, it likely would not have barred the potential suitors from obtaining the very information necessary to determine whether their asserted rights have been violated.8     It is true, as the Ninth Circuit observed, that HHS's Office of the Inspector General (OIG) has published reports finding that "HRSA lacks the oversight mechanisms and authority to ensure that [covered] entities pay at or below the ... ceiling price." 588 F. 3d, at 1242 (quoting OIG, D. Levinson, Deficiencies in the Oversight of the 340B Drug Pricing Program ii (OEI-05-02-00072, Oct. 2005)). See also 588 F. 3d, at 1242-1243 (citing OIG, D. Levinson, Review of 340B Prices 11 (OEI-05-02-00073, July 2006) (estimating that covered entities overpaid $3.9 million in June 2005 alone)). But Congress did not respond to the reports of inadequate HRSA enforcement by inviting 340B entities to launch lawsuits in district courts across the country. Instead, in the PPACA, Congress directed HRSA to create a formal dispute resolution procedure, institute refund and civil penalty systems, and perform audits of manufacturers. 124 Stat. 823-827, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d). Congress thus opted to strengthen and formalize HRSA's enforcement authority, to make the new adjudicative framework the proper remedy for covered entities complaining of "overcharges and other violations of the discounted pricing requirements," id., at 823, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d)(1)(A), and to render the agency's resolution of covered entities' complaints binding, subject to judicial review under the APA, id., at 827, 42 U. S. C. A. §256b(d)(3)(C).*??*??*     For the reasons stated, the judgment of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit isReversed.     Justice Kagan took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.FOOTNOTESThe 1989 version of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208 (FMVSS 208) requires, as relevant here, auto manufacturers to install seatbelts on the rear seats of passenger vehicles. They must install lap-and-shoulder belts on seats next to a vehicle's doors or frames, but may install either those belts or simple lap belts on rear inner seats, e.g., those next to a minivan's aisle.          The Williamson family and Thanh Williamson's estate brought this California tort suit, claiming that Thanh died in an accident because the rear aisle seat of the Mazda minivan in which she was riding had a lap belt instead of lap-and-shoulder belts. The state trial court dismissed their claim on the pleadings. The State Court of Appeal affirmed, relying on Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861, in which this Court found that an earlier (1984) version of FMVSS 208--which required installation of passive restraint devices--pre-empted a state tort suit against an auto manufacturer on a failure to install airbags.Held: FMVSS 208 does not pre-empt state tort suits claiming that manufacturers should have installed lap-and-shoulder belts, instead of lap belts, on rear inner seats. Pp. 3-12.     (a) Because this case involves (1) the same statute as Geier, (2) a later version of the same regulation, and (3) a somewhat similar claim that a state tort action conflicts with the federal regulation, the answers to two of the subsidiary questions posed in Geier apply directly here. Thus, the statute's express pre-emption clause cannot pre-empt the common-law tort action here; but neither can its saving clause foreclose or limit the operation of ordinary conflict pre-emption principles. The Court consequently turns to Geier's third subsidiary question, whether, in fact, the state tort action conflicts with the federal regulation. Pp. 3-5.     (b) Under ordinary conflict pre-emption principles a state law that "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment" of a federal law is pre-empted. Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67. In Geier, the state law stood as an obstacle to the accomplishment of a significant federal regulatory objective, namely, giving manufacturers a choice among different kinds of passive restraint systems. This conclusion was supported by the regulation's history, the agency's contemporaneous explanation, and the Government's current understanding of the regulation. The history showed that the Department of Transportation (DOT) had long thought it important to leave manufacturers with a choice of systems. DOT's contemporaneous explanation of the regulation made clear that manufacturer choice was an important means for achieving DOT's basic objectives. It phased in passive restraint requirements to give manufacturers time to improve airbag technology and develop better systems; it worried that requiring airbags would cause a public backlash; and it was concerned about airbag safety and cost. Finally, the Government's current understanding was that a tort suit insisting upon airbag use would " ' "stan[d] as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of these objectives." ' " 529 U. S., at 883. Pp. 5-8.     (c) Like the regulation in Geier, the instant regulation leaves the manufacturer with a choice, and the tort suit here would restrict that choice. But in contrast to Geier, the choice here is not a significant regulatory objective. The regulation's history resembles the history of airbags to some degree. DOT rejected a regulation requiring lap-and-shoulder belts in rear seats in 1984. But by 1989, changed circumstances led DOT to require manufacturers to install lap-and-shoulder belts for rear outer seats but to retain a manufacturer choice for rear inner seats. Its reasons for doing so differed considerably from its 1984 reasons for permitting a choice of passive restraint. It was not concerned about consumer acceptance; it thought that lap-and-shoulder belts would increase safety and did not pose additional safety risks; and it was not seeking to use the regulation to spur development of alternative safety devices. Instead, DOT thought that the requirement would not be cost effective. That fact alone cannot show that DOT sought to forbid common-law tort suits. For one thing, DOT did not believe that costs would remain frozen. For another, many federal safety regulations embody a cost-effectiveness judgment. To infer pre-emptive intent from the mere existence of such a cost-effectiveness judgment would eliminate the possibility that the agency seeks only to set forth a minimum standard. Finally, the Solicitor General represents that DOT's regulation does not pre-empt this tort suit. As in Geier, "the agency's own views should make a difference," 529 U. S., at 883, and DOT has not expressed inconsistent views on this subject. Pp. 8-12.167 Cal. App. 4th 905, 84 Cal. Rptr. 3d 545, reversed.     Breyer, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Scalia, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Alito, and Sotomayor, JJ., joined. Sotomayor, J., filed a concurring opinion. Thomas, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment. Kagan, J., took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.DELBERT WILLIAMSON, et al., PETITIONERS v. MAZDA MOTOR OF AMERICA, INC., et al.on writ of certiorari to the court of appeal of cali-fornia, fourth appellate district, division three[February 23, 2011]     Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court.     Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208 (1989 version) requires, among other things, that auto manufacturers install seatbelts on the rear seats of passenger vehicles. They must install lap-and-shoulder belts on seats next to a vehicle's doors or frames. But they have a choice about what to install on rear inner seats (say, middle seats or those next to a minivan's aisle). There they can install either (1) simple lap belts or (2) lap-and-shoulder belts. 54 Fed. Reg. 46257-46258 (1989); 49 CFR §571.208 (1993), promulgated pursuant to the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (Act), 80 Stat. 718, 15 U. S. C. §1381 et seq. (1988 ed.) (recodified without substantive change at 49 U. S. C. §30101 et seq. (2006 ed.)).     The question presented here is whether this federal regulation pre-empts a state tort suit that, if successful, would deny manufacturers a choice of belts for rear inner seats by imposing tort liability upon those who choose to install a simple lap belt. We conclude that providing manufacturers with this seatbelt choice is not a significant objective of the federal regulation. Consequently, the regulation does not pre-empt the state tort suit.I     In 2002, the Williamson family, riding in their 1993 Mazda minivan, was struck head on by another vehicle. Thanh Williamson was sitting in a rear aisle seat, wearing a lap belt; she died in the accident. Delbert and Alexa Williamson were wearing lap-and-shoulder belts; they survived. They, along with Thanh's estate, subsequently brought this California tort suit against Mazda. They claimed that Mazda should have installed lap-and-shoulder belts on rear aisle seats, and that Thanh died because Mazda equipped her seat with a lap belt instead.     The California trial court dismissed this tort claim on the basis of the pleadings. And the California Court of Appeal affirmed. The appeals court noted that in Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861 (2000), this Court considered whether a different portion of (an older version of) Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208 (FMVSS 208)--a portion that required installation of passive restraint devices--pre-empted a state tort suit that sought to hold an auto manufacturer liable for failure to install a particular kind of passive restraint, namely, airbags. We found that the federal regulation intended to assure manufacturers that they would retain a choice of installing any of several different passive restraint devices. And the regulation sought to assure them that they would not have to exercise this choice in favor of airbags. For that reason we thought that the federal regulation pre-empted a state tort suit that, by premising tort liability on a failure to install airbags, would have deprived the manufacturers of the choice that the federal regulation had assured them. Id., at 874-875.     The court saw considerable similarity between this case and Geier. The federal regulation at issue here gives manufacturers a choice among two different kinds of seatbelts for rear inner seats. And a state lawsuit that premises tort liability on a failure to install a particular kind of seatbelt, namely, lap-and-shoulder belts, would in effect deprive the manufacturer of that choice. The court concluded that, as in Geier, the federal regulation pre-empts the state tort suit. 167 Cal. App. 4th 905, 84 Cal. Rptr. 3d 545 (2008).     The Williamsons sought certiorari. And we granted certiorari in light of the fact that several courts have interpreted Geier as indicating that FMVSS 208 pre-empts state tort suits claiming that manufacturers should have installed lap-and-shoulder belts, not lap belts, on rear inner seats. Carden v. General Motors Corp., 509 F. 3d 227 (CA5 2007); Roland v. General Motors Corp., 881 N. E. 2d 722 (Ind. App. 2008); Heinricher v. Volvo Car Corp., 61 Mass. App. 313, 809 N. E. 2d 1094 (2004).II     In Geier, we considered a portion of an earlier (1984) version of FMVSS 208. That regulation required manufacturers to equip their vehicles with passive restraint systems, thereby providing occupants with automatic accident protection. 49 Fed. Reg. 28983 (1984). But that regulation also gave manufacturers a choice among several different passive restraint systems, including airbags and automatic seatbelts. Id., at 28996. The question before the Court was whether the Act, together with the regulation, pre-empted a state tort suit that would have held a manufacturer liable for not installing airbags. 529 U. S., at 865. By requiring manufacturers to install airbags (in order to avoid tort liability) the tort suit would have deprived the manufacturers of the choice among passive restraint systems that the federal regulation gave them. See Hillsborough County v. Automated Medical Laboratories, Inc., 471 U. S. 707, 713 (1985) ("[S]tate laws can be pre-empted by federal regulations as well as by federal statutes").     We divided this basic pre-emption question into three subsidiary questions. 529 U. S., at 867. First, we asked whether the statute's express pre-emption provision preempted the state tort suit. That statutory clause says that "no State" may "establish, or . . . continue in effect . . . any safety standard applicable to the same aspect of performance" of a motor vehicle or item of equipment "which is not identical to the Federal standard." 15 U. S. C. §1392(d) (1988 ed.) (emphasis added). We had previously held that a word somewhat similar to "standard," namely, "requirements" (found in a similar statute) included within its scope state "common-law duties," such as duties created by state tort law. Medtronic, Inc. v. Lohr, 518 U. S. 470, 502-503 (1996) (plurality opinion); id., at 503-505 (Breyer, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment); id., at 509-512 (O'Connor, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). But we nonetheless held that the state tort suit in question fell outside the scope of this particular pre-emption clause. That is primarily because the statute also contains a saving clause, which says that "[c]ompliance with" a federal safety standard "does not exempt any person from any liability under common law." 15 U. S. C. §1397(k) (emphasis added). Since tort law is ordinarily "common law," we held that "the presence of the saving clause," makes clear that Congress intended state tort suits to fall outside the scope of the express pre-emption clause. Geier, 529 U. S., at 868.     Second, we asked the converse question: The saving clause at least removes tort actions from the scope of the express pre-emption clause. Id., at 869. But does it do more? Does it foreclose or limit "the operation of ordinary pre-emption principles insofar as those principles instruct us to read" federal statutes as pre-empting state laws (including state common-law standards) that "actually conflict" with the federal statutes (or related regulations)? Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). We concluded that the saving clause does not foreclose or limit the operation of "ordinary pre-emption principles, grounded in longstanding precedent." Id., at 874.     These two holdings apply directly to the case before us. We here consider (1) the same statute, 15 U. S. C. §1381 et seq.; (2) a later version of the same regulation, FMVSS 208; and (3) a somewhat similar claim that a state tort action conflicts with the federal regulation. In light of Geier, the statute's express pre-emption clause cannot pre-empt the common-law tort action; but neither can the statute's saving clause foreclose or limit the operation of ordinary conflict pre-emption principles. We consequently turn our attention to Geier's third subsidiary question, whether, in fact, the state tort action conflicts with the federal regulation.III     Under ordinary conflict pre-emption principles a state law that "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives" of a federal law is pre-empted. Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941). See ibid. (federal statute can pre-empt a state statute); Cipollone v. Liggett Group, Inc., 505 U. S. 504 (1992) (federal statute can pre-empt a state tort suit); Fidelity Fed. Sav. & Loan Assn. v. De la Cuesta, 458 U. S. 141 (1982) (federal regulation can pre-empt a state statute); Geier, supra (federal regulation can pre-empt a state tort suit). In Geier we found that the state law stood as an " 'obstacle' to the accomplishment" of a significant federal regulatory objective, namely, the maintenance of manufacturer choice. 529 U. S., at 886. We must decide whether the same is true here.A     At the heart of Geier lies our determination that giving auto manufacturers a choice among different kinds of passive restraint devices was a significant objective of the federal regulation. We reached this conclusion on the basis of our examination of the regulation, including its history, the promulgating agency's contemporaneous explanation of its objectives, and the agency's current views of the regulation's pre-emptive effect.     The history showed that the Department of Transportation (DOT) had long thought it important to leave manufacturers with a choice. In 1967 DOT required manufacturers to install manual seat belts. Geier, supra, at 875; 32 Fed. Reg. 2408, 2415 (1967). Because many car occupants did not "buckle up," DOT began to require passive protection, such as airbags or automatic seatbelts, but without "favor[ing] or "expect[ing]" the use of airbags. Geier, supra, at 875 (internal quotation marks omitted); 35 Fed. Reg. 16927 (1970). DOT subsequently approved the use of ignition interlocks, which froze the ignition until the occupant buckled the belt, as a substitute for passive restraints. Geier, supra, at 876; 37 Fed. Reg. 3911 (1972). But the interlock devices were unpopular with the public, and Congress soon forbade the agency to make them a means of compliance. Geier, supra, at 876; Motor Vehicle and Schoolbus Safety Amendments of 1974, §109, 88 Stat. 1482 (previously codified at 15 U. S. C. §1410(b) (1988 ed.)). DOT then temporarily switched to the use of demonstration projects, but later it returned to mandating passive restraints, again leaving manufacturers with a choice of systems. Geier, supra, at 876-877; see 49 Fed. Reg. 28962 (1984).     DOT's contemporaneous explanation of its 1984 regulation made clear that manufacturer choice was an important means for achieving its basic objectives. The 1984 regulation gradually phased in passive restraint requirements, initially requiring manufacturers to equip only 10% of their new fleets with passive restraints. DOT explained that it intended its phasing period partly to give manufacturers time to improve airbag technology and to develop "other, better" passive restraint systems. Geier, 529 U. S., at 879. DOT further explained that it had rejected an " 'all airbag' " system. Ibid. It was worried that requiring airbags in most or all vehicles would cause a public backlash, like the backlash against interlock devices. Ibid. DOT also had concerns about the safety of airbags, for they could injure out-of-place occupants, particularly children. Id., at 877-878. And, given the cost of airbags, vehicle owners might not replace them when necessary, leaving occupants without passive protection. Ibid. The regulation therefore "deliberately sought variety--a mix of several different passive restraint systems." Id., at 878. DOT hoped that this mix would lead to better information about the devices' comparative effectiveness and to the eventual development of "alternative, cheaper, and safer passive restraint systems." Id., at 879.     Finally, the Solicitor General told us that a tort suit that insisted upon use of airbags, as opposed to other federally permissible passive restraint systems, would "stan[d] as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of these objectives." Id., at 883 (quoting Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae in Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., O. T. 1999, No. 98-1811, pp. 25-26 (hereinafter United States Brief in Geier) (internal quotation marks omitted)). And we gave weight to the Solicitor General's view in light of the fact that it " 'embodie[d] the Secretary's policy judgment that safety would best be promoted if manufacturers installed alternative protection systems in their fleets rather than one particular system in every car.' " 529 U. S., at 881 (quoting United States Brief in Geier 25-26).     Taken together, this history, the agency's contemporaneous explanation, and the Government's current understanding of the regulation convinced us that manufacturer choice was an important regulatory objective. And since the tort suit stood as an obstacle to the accomplishment of that objective, we found the tort suit pre-empted.B     We turn now to the present case. Like the regulation in Geier, the regulation here leaves the manufacturer with a choice. And, like the tort suit in Geier, the tort suit here would restrict that choice. But unlike Geier, we do not believe here that choice is a significant regulatory objective.     We concede that the history of the regulation before us resembles the history of airbags to some degree. In 1984, DOT rejected a regulation that would have required the use of lap-and-shoulder belts in rear seats. 49 Fed. Reg. 15241. Nonetheless, by 1989 when DOT promulgated the present regulation, it had "concluded that several factors had changed." 54 Fed. Reg. 46258.     DOT then required manufacturers to install a particular kind of belt, namely, lap-and-shoulder belts, for rear outer seats. In respect to rear inner seats, it retained manufacturer choice as to which kind of belt to install. But its 1989 reasons for retaining that choice differed considerably from its 1984 reasons for permitting manufacturers a choice in respect to airbags. DOT here was not concerned about consumer acceptance; it was convinced that lap-and-shoulder belts would increase safety; it did not fear additional safety risks arising from use of those belts; it had no interest in assuring a mix of devices; and, though it was concerned about additional costs, that concern was diminishing.     In respect to consumer acceptance, DOT wrote that if"people who are familiar with and in the habit of wearing lap/shoulder belts in the front seat find lap/shoulder belts in the rear seat, it stands to reason that they would be more likely to wear those belts when riding in the rear seat." 53 Fed. Reg. 47983 (1988).     In respect to safety, DOT wrote that, because an increasing number of rear seat passengers wore seatbelts, rear seat lap-and-shoulder belts would have "progressively greater actual safety benefits." 54 Fed. Reg. 46257.It added:"[s]tudies of occupant protection from 1968 forward show that the lap-only safety belts installed in rear seating positions are effective in reducing the risk of death and injury. . . . However, the agency believes that rear-seat lap/shoulder safety belts would be even more effective." Ibid.     Five years earlier, DOT had expressed concern that lap-and-shoulder belts might negatively impact child safety by interfering with the use of certain child car seats that relied upon a tether. But by 1989, DOT found that car-seat designs "had shifted away" from tethers. 53 Fed. Reg. 47983. And rear lap-and-shoulder belts could therefore offer safety benefits for children old enough to use them without diminishing the safety of smaller children in car seats. Id., at 47988-47989 ("[T]he agency believes that this proposal for rear seat lap/shoulder belts would offer benefits for children riding in some types of booster seats, would have no positive or negative effects on children riding in most designs of car seats and children that are too small to use shoulder belts, and would offer older children the same incremental safety protection [as adults]"). Nor did DOT seek to use its regulation to spur the development of alternative kinds of rear aisle or middle seat safety devices. See 54 Fed. Reg. 46257.     Why then did DOT not require lap-and-shoulder belts in these seats? We have found some indication that it thought use of lap-and-shoulder belts in rear aisle seats could cause "entry and exit problems for occupants of seating positions to the rear" by "stretch[ing] the shoulder belt across the aisleway," id., at 46258. However, DOT encouraged manufacturers to address this issue through innovation:"[I]n those cases where manufacturers are able to design and install lap/shoulder belts at seating positions adjacent to aisleways without interfering with the aisleway's purpose of allowing access to more rearward seating positions[, the agency] encourages the manufacturers to do so." 54 Fed. Reg. 46258.And there is little indication that DOT considered this matter a significant safety concern. Cf. Letter from Philip R. Recht, Chief Counsel, National Highway Traffic Safety Admin., to Roger Matoba (Dec. 28, 1994), App. to Reply Brief for Petitioners 2 ("With respect to your concerns about the safety of shoulder safety belts which cross an aisle, I note that such belts do not in fact prevent rearward passengers from exiting the vehicle. Such passengers may ... g[o] under or over the belt. They may also move the belt aside").     The more important reason why DOT did not require lap-and-shoulder belts for rear inner seats was that it thought that this requirement would not be cost-effective. The agency explained that it would be significantly more expensive for manufacturers to install lap-and-shoulder belts in rear middle and aisle seats than in seats next to the car doors. Ibid. But that fact--the fact that DOT made a negative judgment about cost effectiveness--cannot by itself show that DOT sought to forbid common-law tort suits in which a judge or jury might reach a different conclusion.     For one thing, DOT did not believe that costs would remain frozen. Rather it pointed out that costs were falling as manufacturers were "voluntarily equipping more and more of their vehicles with rear seat lap/shoulder belts." Ibid. For another thing, many, perhaps most, federal safety regulations embody some kind of cost-effectiveness judgment. While an agency could base a decision to pre-empt on its cost-effectiveness judgment, we are satisfied that the rulemaking record at issue here discloses no such pre-emptive intent. And to infer from the mere existence of such a cost-effectiveness judgment that the federal agency intends to bar States from imposing stricter standards would treat all such federal standards as if they were maximum standards, eliminating the possibility that the federal agency seeks only to set forth a minimum standard potentially supplemented through state tort law. We cannot reconcile this consequence with a statutory saving clause that foresees the likelihood of a continued meaningful role for state tort law. Supra, at 4.     Finally, the Solicitor General tells us that DOT's regulation does not pre-empt this tort suit. As in Geier, "the agency's own views should make a difference." 529 U. S., at 883."Congress has delegated to DOT authority to implement the statute; the subject matter is technical; and the relevant history and background are complex and extensive. The agency is likely to have a thorough understanding of its own regulation and its objectives and is 'uniquely qualified' to comprehend the likely impact of state requirements." Ibid.There is "no reason to suspect that the Solicitor General's representation of DOT's views reflects anything other than 'the agency's fair and considered judgment on the matter.' " Id., at 884 (quoting Auer v. Robbins, 519 U. S. 452, 462 (1997)).     Neither has DOT expressed inconsistent views on this subject. In Geier, the Solicitor General pointed out that "state tort law does not conflict with a federal 'minimum standard' merely because state law imposes a more stringent requirement." United States Brief in Geier 21 (citation omitted). And the Solicitor General explained that a standard giving manufacturers "multiple options for the design of" a device would not pre-empt a suit claiming that a manufacturer should have chosen one particular option, where "the Secretary did not determine that the availability of options was necessary to promote safety." Id., at 22; see Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae in Wood v. General Motors Corp., O. T. 1989, No. 89-46, p. 15. This last statement describes the present case.     In Geier, then, the regulation's history, the agency's contemporaneous explanation, and its consistently held interpretive views indicated that the regulation sought to maintain manufacturer choice in order to further significant regulatory objectives. Here, these same considerations indicate the contrary. We consequently conclude that, even though the state tort suit may restrict the manufacturer's choice, it does not "stan[d] as an obstacle to the accomplishment . . . of the full purposes and objectives" of federal law. Hines, 312 U. S., at 67. Thus, the regulation does not pre-empt this tort action.     The judgment of the California Court of Appeal is reversed.It is so ordered.     Justice Kagan took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.DELBERT WILLIAMSON, et al., PETITIONERS v. MAZDA MOTOR OF AMERICA, INC., et al.on writ of certiorari to the court of appeal of cali-fornia, fourth appellate district, division three[February 23, 2011]     Justice Sotomayor, concurring.     As the Court notes, this is not the first case in which the Court has encountered the express pre-emption provision and saving clause of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, 80 Stat. 718, 15 U. S. C. §1381 et seq. (1988 ed.) (recodified without substantive change at 49 U. S. C. §30101 et seq. (2006 ed. and Supp. III)). In Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861 (2000), the Court concluded that the "saving clause (like the express pre-emption provision) does not bar the ordinary working of conflict pre-emption principles," id., at 869, and therefore engaged in an implied pre-emption analysis. The majority and dissent in Geier agreed that "a court should not find pre-emption too readily in the absence of clear evidence of a conflict." Id., at 885.     I agree with the majority's resolution of this case and with its reasoning. I write separately only to emphasize the Court's rejection of an overreading of Geier that has developed since that opinion was issued.     Geier does not stand, as the California Court of Appeal, 167 Cal. App. 4th 905, 918-919, 84 Cal. Rptr. 3d 545, 555-556 (2008), other courts, and some of respondents' amici seem to believe, for the proposition that any time an agency gives manufacturers a choice between two or more options, a tort suit that imposes liability on the basis of one of the options is an obstacle to the achievement of a federal regulatory objective and may be pre-empted.** Rather, Geier turned on the fact that the agency, via Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, "deliberately sought variety--a mix of several different passive restraint systems." 529 U. S., at 878; ante, at 7. As the United States notes, "a conflict results only when the Safety Act (or regulations implementing the Safety Act) does not just set out options for compliance, but also provides that the regulated parties must remain free to choose among those options." Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 8. In other words, the mere fact that an agency regulation allows manufacturers a choice between options is insufficient to justify implied pre-emption; courts should only find pre-emption where evidence exists that an agency has a regulatory objective--e.g., obtaining a mix of passive restraint mechanisms, as in Geier--whose achievement depends on manufacturers having a choice between options. A link between a regulatory objective and the need for manufacturer choice to achieve that objective is the lynchpin of implied pre-emption when there is a saving clause.     Absent strong indications from the agency that it needs manufacturers to have options in order to achieve a "significant ... regulatory objective," ante, at 5, state tort suits are not "obstacle[s] to the accomplishment ... of the full purposes and objectives" of federal law, Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941). As the majority explains, the agency here gave no indication that its safety goals required the mixture of seatbelt types that resulted from manufacturers' ability to choose different options. Ante, at 8-12 (distinguishing the regulatory record in this case from that in Geier).     Especially in light of the "statutory saving clause that foresees the likelihood of a continued meaningful role for state tort law," ante, at 11, respondents have not carried their burden of establishing that the agency here "deliberately sought variety" to achieve greater safety, Geier, 529 U. S., at 878. Therefore, the Williamsons' tort suit does not present an obstacle to any "significant federal regulatory objective," ante, at 5, and may not be pre-empted.     For these reasons, I concur.DELBERT WILLIAMSON, et al., PETITIONERS v. MAZDA MOTOR OF AMERICA, INC., et al.on writ of certiorari to the court of appeal of cali-fornia, fourth appellate district, division three[February 23, 2011]     Justice Thomas, concurring in the judgment.     The Court concludes that the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (Safety Act) and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208 (FMVSS 208) do not pre-empt the Williamsons' state tort lawsuit. I agree. But I reach this result by a more direct route: the Safety Act's saving clause, which speaks directly to this question and answers it. See 49 U. S. C. §30103(e).I     The plain text of the Safety Act resolves this case. Congress has instructed that "[c]ompliance with a motor vehicle safety standard prescribed under this chapter does not exempt a person from liability at common law." Ibid. This saving clause "explicitly preserv[es] state common-law actions." Wyeth v. Levine, 555 U. S. ___, ___ (2009) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 18). Here, Mazda complied with FMVSS 208 when it chose to install a simple lap belt. According to Mazda, the Williamsons' lawsuit alleging that it should have installed a lap-and-shoulder seatbelt instead is pre-empted. That argument is foreclosed by the saving clause; the Williamsons' state tort action is not pre-empted.     The majority does not rely on the Safety Act's saving clause because this Court effectively read it out of the statute in Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U. S. 861 (2000). In Geier, the Court interpreted the saving clause as simply cancelling out the statute's express pre-emption clause with respect to common-law tort actions. This left the Court free to consider the effect of conflict pre-emption principles on such tort actions. See id., at 869.     But it makes no sense to read the express pre-emption clause in conjunction with the saving clause. See id., at 898 (Stevens, J., dissenting). The express pre-emption clause bars States from having any safety "standard applicable to the same aspect of performance" as a federal standard unless it is "identical" to the federal one. §30103(b). That clause pre-empts States from establishing "objective rule[s] prescribed by a legislature or an administrative agency" in competition with the federal standards; it says nothing about the tort lawsuits that are the focus of the saving clause. Id., at 896.** Read independently of the express pre-emption clause, the saving clause simply means what it says: FMVSS 208 does not pre-empt state common-law actions.II     As in Geier, rather than following the plain text of the statute, the majority's analysis turns on whether the tort lawsuit here " 'stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives' " of FMVSS 208. Ante, at 5 (quoting Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941)). I have rejected purposes-and-objectives pre-emption as inconsistent with the Constitution because it turns entirely on extratextual "judicial suppositions." Wyeth, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 22); see also Haywood v. Drown, 556 U. S. ___, ___ (2009) (dissenting opinion) (slip op., at 26-27).     Pre-emption occurs "by direct operation of the Supremacy Clause," Brown v. Hotel Employees, 468 U. S. 491, 501 (1984), which "requires that pre-emptive effect be given only to those federal standards and policies that are set forth in, or necessarily follow from, the statutory text that was produced through the constitutionally required bicameral and presentment procedures." Wyeth, 555 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5) (opinion of Thomas, J.). In short, pre-emption must turn on the text of a federal statute or the regulations it authorizes. See id., at ___ (slip op., at 6); see also Geier, supra, at 911 (Stevens, J., dissenting).     Purposes-and-objectives pre-emption--which by design roams beyond statutory or regulatory text--is thus wholly illegitimate. It instructs courts to pre-empt state laws based on judges' "conceptions of a policy which Congress has not expressed and which is not plainly to be inferred from the legislation which it has enacted." Hines, supra, at 75 (Stone, J., dissenting); Geier, supra, at 907 (opinion of Stevens, J.) (expressing concern about judges "running amok with our potentially boundless (and perhaps inadequately considered) [purposes-and-objectives pre-emption doctrine]"); see also Wyeth, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 13-21) (opinion of Thomas, J.) (recounting the history of the doctrine).     The majority's purposes-and-objectives pre-emption analysis displays the inherent constitutional problem with the doctrine. The Court begins with FMVSS 208, which allowed manufacturers to install either simple lap or lap-and-shoulder seatbelts in the rear aisle seat of 1993 minivans. The majority then turns to what it considers the primary issue: whether "that choice [was] a significant regulatory objective." Ante, at 8 (emphasis added). Put more plainly, the question is whether the regulators really wanted manufacturers to have a choice or did not really want them to have a choice but gave them one anyway.     To answer that question, the majority engages in a "freewheeling, extratextual, and broad evaluatio[n] of the 'purposes and objectives' " of FMVSS 208. Wyeth, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 23) (opinion of Thomas, J.). The Court wades into a sea of agency musings and Government litigating positions and fishes for what the agency may have been thinking 20 years ago when it drafted the relevant provision. After scrutinizing the 1989 Federal Register, a letter written in 1994, and the Solicitor General's present-day assurances, the Court finds that Department of Transportation liked the idea of lap-and-shoulder seatbelts in all seats, but did not require them, primarily for cost-efficiency reasons and also because of some concern for ingress-egress around the belt mounts. Ante, at 8-11. From all of this, the majority determines that although the regulators specifically and intentionally gave manufacturers a choice between types of seatbelts, that choice was not a "significant regulatory objective" and so does not pre-empt state tort lawsuits.     That the Court in Geier reached an opposite conclusion reveals the utterly unconstrained nature of purposes-and-objectives pre-emption. There is certainly "considerable similarity between this case and Geier." Ante, at 2. Just as in this case, Geier involved a choice offered to car manufacturers in FMVSS 208: whether to install airbags. Ante, at 8. And just as in this case, the Court in Geier relied on "history, the agency's contemporaneous explanation, and the Government's current understanding" to determine the significance of that choice. Ante, at 7-8. Yet the Geier Court concluded that "giving auto manufacturers a choice among different kinds of passive restraint devices was a significant objective of the federal regulation," ante, at 6, and thus found the Geiers' lawsuit pre-empted.     The dispositive difference between this case and Geier--indeed, the only difference--is the majority's "psychoanalysis" of the regulators. United States v. Public Util. Comm'n of Cal., 345 U. S. 295, 319 (1953) (Jackson, J., concurring) (describing reliance on legislative history). The majority cites no difference on the face of FMVSS 208 between the airbag choice addressed in Geier and the seatbelt choice at issue in this case.     According to the majority, to determine whether FMVSS 208 pre-empts a tort suit, courts apparently must embark on the same expedition undertaken here: sifting through the Federal Register, examining agency ruminations, and asking the Government what it currently thinks. Pre-emption is then proper if the court decides that the regulators thought the choice especially important, but not if the choice was only somewhat important. This quest roves far from the Safety Act and analyzes pre-emption based on a formless inquiry into how strongly an agency felt about the regulation it enacted 20 years ago.     "[F]reeranging speculation about what the purposes of the [regulation] must have been" is not constitutionally proper in any case. Wyeth, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 15) (opinion of Thomas, J.). The Supremacy Clause commands that the "[l]aws of the United States," not the unenacted hopes and dreams of the Department of Transportation, "shall be the supreme Law of the Land." U. S. Const., Art. VI, cl. 2. The impropriety is even more obvious here because the plain text of the Safety Act resolves this case.     For these reasons, I concur in the judgment.FOOTNOTES